A lot of people do this on dates and it
drives me crazy. Look, watch this.
Vanessa, yesterday you and my team did
some matchmaking. Yes. Okay, so we had
the very first date and I pre- coached a
gentleman and I was coaching the girls
via an earpiece and I was shocked by
these
dates. Please don't do
that. This is why we're having a baby
crisis.
I got angry after this date. Why? I was
like, girl, we handed this guy to you on
a silver platter. She was physically
attracted to him and I asked her, "Would
you like to go out with him again?" And
she said to me, "Really?" Yeah. Yeah.
And now we are missing opportunities for
connection, the thing that's going to
make us healthy, happy, and live a long
time. Vanessa Van Edwards has helped
over 400,000 students crack the code on
human behavior, decoding universal body
language, and sharing sciencebacked
secrets for better dates, smoother
conversations, and bigger career wins.
Vanessa Van Edwards, welcome back. The
first place I want to start is, can we
change who we are? They've actually
researched this and every person on
planet Earth has these five personality
traits and they fall on a spectrum high,
medium or low and they're somewhere
between 42 to 57% heritable for example
neuroticism which is how you worry and
high neurotics like me produce less
serotonin more slowly. Serotonin makes
us feel calm and so like I am having far
more negative experiences than the same
person in the room and that's genetic.
But there is 30 to 40% potential for
change. You want a better relationship,
you want a raise, you want a promotion,
you want more friends. The good news is
anyone can learn these cues and
techniques such as decoding the seven
universal micro expressions we all do
unconsciously. How to spot a liar, the
number one mistake people make in a
first impression and how to become a
master communicator. Can I teach them to
you, please? Let's start
with This has always blown my mind a
little bit. 53% of you that listen to
this show regularly haven't yet
subscribed to the show. So, could I ask
you for a favor before we start? If you
like the show and you like what we do
here and you want to support us, the
free simple way that you can do just
that is by hitting the subscribe button.
And my commitment to you is if you do
that, then I'll do everything in my
power, me and my team, to make sure that
this show is better for you every single
week. We'll listen to your feedback.
We'll find the guests that you want me
to speak to, and we'll continue to do
what we do. Thank you so
much. Vanessa Van Edwards, welcome back.
Thank you for having me back. How you
been? Oh my gosh, your folks are so
kind. Can I just say since the last
interview, the incredible people have
reached out and just been supportive and
kind. They ask amazing questions and so
I'm just so grateful. So, I've been
really good. Just in case anybody
doesn't know who you are and what you
do, you're going to have to take me
back. What is it you do and who are you?
I'm a recovering awkward person and I
help other awkward folks learn how to
communicate. I have books and courses
and I love helping very very smart
people share their ideas better.
Communicate online and in person. Oh,
all of it. All of it. Slack, text,
email, online, in person, on the phone.
We can talk about vocal power, video
power. You are communicating all the
time even if you don't realize it. And I
that's that's the hidden opportunity.
How important is it like how pivotal is
it and can it be for someone's life if
they master the skill of communication,
first impressions, and all of the things
that you educate us on so articulately?
It will get you everything you want. You
want a better relationship, you want a
soulmate, you want a raise, you want a
promotion, you want a business, you want
more friends, you want a support system,
it will even get you longevity. That's
how strong I feel about it. If you have
incredible relationships and you're able
to communicate your ideas so people like
you and they listen, your life changes.
But is it is it not genetic? You know,
like are are we set in our ways? Look,
there are certain people born out the
womb charismatic. Great hand gestures,
great eyebrows right out the womb. There
are those very unique people, but most
of us learn charisma. Most really,
really charismatic leaders, they've
learned, ah, this non-verbal cue gets
people to smile. Oh, this vocal power
people pay attention and lean in. And
they've accidentally or purposefully
learned how to hone their charisma. And
the good news is, I think anyone can
learn it. Anyone, no matter how awkward
you are, believe me, I'm proof. You can
learn it. You're proof. I'm recovering
awkward person. I was so awkward. I have
I had a really hard time communicating
with people. I was not wellliked. I was
had very few friends. If I can learn it,
anyone can learn it. I promise. It's
almost impossible to believe that you
were an awkward person. I promise. I You
know, also awkwardness dresses up in
different ways, right? So, I think most
people when they think of awkward, they
think of that stereotypical robotic
unreadable saying weird things. That was
not my brand of awkward. My brand of
awkward was trying to be impressive when
I clearly wasn't. Telling funny stories
that were not funny, talking too much.
Shocker, right? It was saying the wrong
things and overcommunicating. I also had
that Labrador energy, you know, like
that golden retriever energy where I'm
like,
do you know what I mean? She just stuck
her tongue out. I'm like super into
people. And that was awkward because
people would be like, "Back up. It's
okay." And that was awkward because it
created I I was so overeager. I so
wanted people to like me that I feel
like, you know, I was leaning into
everyone all the time and that created
awkwardness for people because I was
trying so hard. Write into the show or
speak to me in the street and it's so
surprising that the thing even if they
live in these, you know, densely
populated cities, the sort of most
pressing issue on their mind is I don't
know how to make a friend. And it's
funny because sometimes they start to be
in a gym and it's like there's 300
people surrounding us right now and not
knowing how to walk up and say hello or
introduce yourself. Yeah. But a lot of
us I think have casual friends. We have
like you know acquaintances, people they
know what we do but then we don't know
how to level up. Like I believe that
everyone should have core friendship
values. Mine are for me personally
respect meaning they don't show up late.
They respect my time. Self honesty. I
actually like honesty but I prefer self
honesty in a friend. I had friendships
that didn't work for a long time because
they lied to themselves about things.
And I am not a liar. So I would be like,
"But he's terrible to you." And they'd
be like, "What? No, he's not."
Selfdeception doesn't work for me.
That's a core friendship value. Cannot
do it. Do you know what I'm saying? Self
honesty. Self honesty specifically. Um,
and the last one is depth. So once I
started going deep, I realized I need
that. I cannot have a surface level
friend. Like I want to know how is your
marriage, but how is it really? Like I
want to go really really deep. And if I
sense that there's any kind of
hesitation there, we're not going to be
friends. So, I think it's important to
think about, yes, hobbies, great, like
you want to do activities with these
people, but what are your core
friendship values? And how do I figure
out what my core friendship values are?
Okay. Think about all the things that
drive you crazy about your current
friends. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Think about
friendships that didn't work out, that
had a lot of potential, but like they
you just they fizzled. you never quite
had a good time with them or friends
that you get together with them all the
time but they still they still wouldn't
be a best friend. Why?
Okay. Yeah. Like what what is blocking
what is missing there and it could be on
either side, right? It's like not all
just up to them. So think about what
drives you crazy and then like what
makes you feel healed, what makes you
feel good, what makes you feel calm,
what makes you feel like yourself.
Personal responsibility is a big one for
me. I think give me an example of that.
Just like it's it's a deep belief that
you are in control of your life and you
are control of your outcomes because
then it's like almost the antithesis of
victimhood. Totally. And you don't want
to be dealing with a friend who's um
chronically engaged in like victimhood,
you know. So that was you want heroes.
And how many people have you taught the
skill of better communication and better
connections to in the last decade? Oh my
gosh. Well, at least 400,000 students
who I can count, but millions more.
Millions. 100,000 students. Yes. And
it's it's actually probably way more
than that, but that's just what we can
count. And what is like the essence of
what they're trying to get? Cuz
obviously a skill is a path to something
that they want. What is the thing that
they want? They want to be master
communicators. Why? They want to be able
to ask for what they want and get it. If
you are a master communicator, no matter
what you want, again, if it's a partner
or a business deal, you can get it if
you can communicate. Well, can you make
me a master communicator? For sure.
Let's do it then. Let's do it. The first
place I want to start is with first
impressions. Yeah. And how one can make
a great first impression because first
impressions are like I make them all day
every day. When I meet people on the
podcast, in business, in in the street,
at the gym, someone might listen to the
show, they come up to me. So, I'm
constantly trying to think about how to
make a better first impression because
from the work that I've read of yours,
they really matter, right? They really
matter. They really our first
impressions are actually very accurate.
They they find 76% accurate with our
personality traits. In other words,
people can accurately guess after a
first impression how extroverted you
are, how agreeable, how neurotic.
Actually, neurotic is the hardest one to
guess. We can hide that really well.
Openness and conscientiousness. We're
pretty good at guessing that. Like, I
could guess that based on just the first
few seconds of interaction, which means
they're lasting. So, if you've made a
bad first impression, it's hard to
recover. I I hate to be the bearer bad
news. We can work on it, but nailing
that first impression will set you up
for a lifetime of success with that
person. So, it's very important that we
don't throw them away. And this is the
number one mistake people make in a
first impression. They do it like
this. Oh, hi. Nice to meet you. Looking
down at their phone or their iPad or
their computer or their notepad or their
book. When we are looking down, it looks
very much like the universal defeat
posture. Universal defeat is when we
tuck our chin to our chest. We usually
have our very little space between our
shoulders and our earlobes. We have our
arms close to our sides. This Yeah.
Don't you feel kind of horrible? You
look horrible. Oh, thank you.
When you check your phone, every time
you check your phone, you accidentally
look like a loser. And I mean that
literally in terms of losing and
winning. So, in a first impression,
you're waiting in the waiting room for a
big job interview. You're waiting for
your date for possibly your perfect
person. And what are you doing? Checking
your phone. So, I'm I'm sat there
looking like a loser. Yeah. That first
impression that happens in the first few
seconds of seeing you. And this is
another mistake introverts make. They
think their first impression happens
starts the moment they start talking.
No, your first impression happens the
moment someone first sees you. That's
when they walk into a room, open the
door, walk into a restaurant, or look at
your profile picture. Profile pictures
are even more important. They've found
that people make a first impression of
you within the first 100 milliseconds of
looking at your profile picture. That's
so fast that you barely even realize you
saw a picture. But we are so attuned to
look at someone's facial expressions,
their body posture, what's visible, our
clothing, our ornaments. And what's
fascinating about this research is they
found that different pictures of the
same person can give different first
impressions, which means we are in
control of our first impressions. If
different pictures of the same person,
like if you have five different pictures
of yourself and you put them up all
different LinkedIn profiles, you people
are going to make different judgments of
you, which means you can control the
kind of judgment you want to make by
picking the right picture, but also
having the right body language when
someone first sees you. Someone did a
study on that. Yeah, I think Simin
Vazier, I think, did this study. Yeah,
don't quote me, but I I believe Simin
Vazier does a lot on digital first
impressions. And what's incredible is
that small tweaks to your cues can have
a massive impact on your impression. So,
for example, I've played around with
this on mine where I'll have my hand in
my picture. Like, there's a big
difference. If you were to see me like
this with my my face on my hand, it's
called a face platter. Okay? So, for
anyone that can't see you, you've got
both of your hands out and your chin
resting in the middle of it. It's called
a face platter, right? Think of like my
face on a platter for anyone who's
listening. This is a very different
impression than this. Like same face,
face platter, warm, almost feminine,
kind of girly versus this. Very
professional, very competent. Just that
one difference. So all these cues are
changing, especially if you're h for
impression happening on dating profile
apps on LinkedIn, in your email, like a
little picture in email, your website.
It is changing the way people treat you
and think of you. Okay. So let me show
you some profile photos. I would love to
see. And you tell me what they're
giving. All right. Okay. What is this
giving? Okay, so she's leaning her head
to one side with her cheek on her hand.
First, immediately a head tilt. Head
head tilt is a universal sign of
engagement and warmth. She's giving me
nurturing vibes. Doesn't Don't you want
to tell her all your problems? Like I
would guess she's a therapist or a life
coach. She has a watch on, which is a
good ornament for competence. So, she's
probably a therapist or maybe a
psychoanalyst. Probably has a degree.
She also wears glasses. We like women in
glasses and makeup for very competent.
That actually ups our competence factor.
By the way, this is just the research,
not my opinion. And she has a a sweater
tied around her uh top, and that's very
conservative. So, I would say warm and
nurturing. Could be a grandmother likely
in a self health profession.
Correct.
So, some cues there we can learn from is
we want to balance out the friendliness,
the the warmth, the approachability with
the with the take me seriously. So, you
take her seriously because of her watch
and her glasses and her lack of a smile.
Those are all cues of competence. We
like that. We also like those cues of
warmth. Head tilt, hand on face, and a
soft smile. So in that way, it's a
perfect bl balance or blend. What about
this guy profile photo? Okay. So we are
seeing a gentleman with uh no hands. So
we see no hand gestures, just his face.
He's also tilting his chin down and his
forehead is forward. Um you also see a
genuine smile. The best thing about this
picture is he's doing an authentic smile
because you can see those cheek muscles
are activated. Uh, zepper upper
zygomaticus. Terrible at saying that,
but these muscles are activated. So,
very likable. Oh, yeah. I like that.
Good job. Yes. I love this smile. Um, so
we love that authentic smile. So, he's
very warm and approachable. He's also
making eye contact with the camera.
Slight head tilt. I would actually say
this is very warm, almost too warm. If
he is a doctor or a professor or someone
who needs to be taken
seriously, I don't know if I'd go to him
with my problems. It's a lot of warmth
for that photo. And by the way, I want
to make this as helpful for folks at
home. So, think of your impression like
a thermostat. You can dial up your trust
and your approachability by adding cues.
So, if you want to add warmth or trust
or liability, you can add a head tilt.
You can show your hands. Movement is
also one. So, sometimes you'll see
people who are like leaning their head
over to the side or even in the process
of a walk. That's why all those
photographers use wind. Oh, yeah. Yeah.
It actually adds like this weird element
of warmth if you want to dial up um
competence power. If you want to be
taken seriously, especially if you're in
a career where you've been challenged or
interrupted or not taken seriously or
underestimated, you really want to dial
up competence in your profile picture.
Like the cover of my books, I am not
smiling. And that is because I'm a quite
a smiley person and I want people to
take me seriously. So, I made a choice
to not smile on my covers. What about
this chap? All right. This is a dating
app profile photo. Look, I love it.
Okay, this guy has a cat around his
neck. And you know what? I love it. Why?
Because if you love cats, you're going
to love this guy. If you hate cats,
you're going to swipe. We want to make
people not like us with the ornaments we
choose, right? Like, I love when my
husband wears a cowboy hat because
certain people are going to love it.
Certain people aren't going to like it.
He's going to find his people. We're in
Austin, Texas, so it would be weird if
he like wore it in London or something
like that. D, what' you think? Okay, so
I do not like sunglasses in photos at
all. And the reason for this is because
research shows that we can produce
oxytocin, which is the chemical of
connection even through a lens. When you
can't see someone's eyes, it puts a
little barrier in our head of like, I
don't know. I don't know about this
person. That's chemically your body
being like, I cannot see her eyes. So,
I'm a hard no on sunglasses. This is
like she's very distant from me. Even
though she has a beautiful smile, I
can't see the upper cheek muscles and I
can't see her eyes. is does that apply
to real life too? The sunglasses point.
Like does it disconnect us from people?
You know, I haven't seen research on
that. I've only seen research on
sunglasses in photos. So, I'm going to
say in person I think it's okay. But I
will say like have you ever been with
someone and they like take off their
glasses to see you better? Has that ever
happened to you? Yes. It feels good.
Yeah. Like they can if you want to show
someone, I'm going to really listen to
you. Take off your glasses or roll up
your sleeves. So there's also we know
this is a cue is like let's get into it.
I often see like leaders when they're
getting into the get into it part of
their speech they roll up their sleeves.
Another one that I like is this one
rubbing your hands together. Okay. So
this is a universal get ready cube. If
you are about to share something really
really good to your team. You want to go
like this guys. I got something good
today.
You would like it. You would like it if
we were in a team meeting. Yeah. Okay.
Right. You got because it's a universal
cue of warming up. So, going back then
to first
impressions, how do I make a really bad
first impression? A really bad first
impression. Yeah. So, we'll do the bad
first, then we'll do the good. You said
one of the the worst things one can do
is to walk up on their phone, on a
device, etc. Okay. So, bad is taking up
as little space as possible. Yeah.
Right. No space between our arms and our
torso, no space between our shoulders
and our earlobes. Um, the second thing
is hidden hands. So, hands in pockets,
hand to the table, hands not in shot. We
like to see hands, especially right
away. It makes us feel intention, right?
We like know what's going to happen. So,
I'm like, "Hi, good to see you." I put
my hands, a lot of my hands are in my
profile pictures. That's a bad one is
hidden hands. And the last one is
avoidant gaze. We really do like to make
eye contact within the first few seconds
of meeting someone. It makes us feel
like someone's avoiding that oxytocin.
It gives us a chemical burst of trust.
They've even, you know, had people do
nose sprays full of oxytocin and it
immediately makes them share more, open
more, connect more. Yeah. So, we want
direct eye contact, visible hands, and a
broad body. What about I call the triple
threat, by the way. The triple threat.
That's the triple threat. What about
when sat at a table like this? Because I
I sit here for hundreds and hundreds of
hours listening to people. Yeah. And I
am I've never said this before, but I'm
always really quite conscious about my
body language because I don't want to
signal the wrong thing, but because I'm
thinking about so many things at once.
I'm like doing research while someone's
talking. I'm reading my notes. I'm
writing sometimes. I'm jotting something
down and I'm thinking about the next
thing I'm thinking about the edit.
There's a lot going on in my head. Um I
never want them to misconstrue it as
like a reflection on them. Mhm. So, what
would you re how would you recommend
that I conduct myself whether it's as a
podcaster or in a meeting when you're
with a client or whatever to signal that
I'm warm and competent and all the good
stuff. Okay. So, first easiest one is
you're always angled towards me. I'm so
grateful that you don't have us angled
at a V. So many podcasts I do are like
that and it is very hard to connect with
someone when they're like that. So,
you're already laying the groundwork of
of of being aligned in your office right
now. If you work at an office, move your
chairs so they're not at an angle
towards you that they're right at you.
That's already going to set you up for
success because I know we're on the same
page even if you're looking at something
else. Then you want to think about 60%
eye contact. It's very specific. In
Western cultures, they find that the
ideal the sweet spot for oxytocin is 60
70 to 70%. Some East Asian cultures,
it's less eye contact. So that's okay.
But if you can hit that 60%. That's not
100%. Especially when I'm making an
important point. Like you'll often be
doing nose and you'll look up at me when
I'm making an important point. That's
all I need to know I got this. Keep
going. And then really powerful people
make eye contact at the end of their
point. So you could be talking like
this, explaining this, remembering
something, but let me tell you, at the
very end of my point, that's when it
matters.
Interesting. And I think you actually do
that pretty naturally. I don't know if
you realize you're doing it, but if
you're in a meeting or pres presenting
or you're an interviewer, that's
actually what matters more is that at
the end of your sentence, you're sealing
it with that eye contact. Yeah. Cuz I
look, I'm doing it now. I look away
because I I'm struggling with my ideas,
trying to articulate them, and then once
I've got it, I come back to you and make
the point like that. Yes. And that
actually is good. It shows me that
you're processing. We know as humans
that I cannot do complex math problems
while making eye contact. Yeah. We can't
do it. And so actually it makes you look
very thoughtful and pensive for the 40%
you're not looking at me when you're
gathering that actually leaders do that
because they're showing I'm
authentically coming up with the answer.
It would be very weird if you were
delivering 100% with 100% eye contact
because I would feel like it was
scripted. Yeah. That's one of the
reasons why I think um presenters make
this problem and I whenever I watch like
Shark Tank or Dragon's Den, a big
mistake they make is they're so
rehearsed they don't break eye contact
and it gives you sort of a robotic
feeling. So if you're practicing a
presentation, you actually want to have
a little bit of like adlib in there. You
want to be processing around because it
shows you're authentically grabbing the
information and that shows competence,
right? Highly competent people, they
don't need a script because they know
their stuff so well that they can just
grab it out for you. They can think on
the spot. Low competent people are
memorized. That is why like the TED
talks that we like the best, the
pictures we like the best, they're
basically having a really smart
conversation with you and you like it.
So I like that you're gathering away
from me that you're thinking of a
question. The worst interviews I have
are where someone is just beating me
with questions and not thinking about
it, you know. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Okay. So gestures, eye contact, um it's
okay to make only 60% eye contact.
That's the triple threat. The other
thing in a first impression that I
really like is breaking the script,
right? I think in a first impression,
it's okay to be like, "Hey, good
morning." But when we do the how are
you? Good. How are you? Good. How are
you? Good. How are you? And you get like
that horrible like loop. I'm going to
challenge everyone to try to break the
script with how are you? So, when
someone asks how are you, don't say
good. Don't say busy but good. Try to
answer with like a little bit of humor.
Okay? If you can. Now, I'm not funny.
So, we should take this advice with a
grain of salt. You are funny, but I'm
not that funny. But there's a couple
things you can do. So, one is you could
answer with a number. So, like you
laughed. I didn't even do it yet. You
already laughed, right? Seven. Most
people say seven. I was going to say
seven. Oh, really? Right. So, if you're
like someone's like, "How are you?" And
you're like, "Seven on the 10 scale,
right?" Like it just it breaks the
script a little bit. I also love when
you say um what you're wrestling with.
So, I might be like, "Just been fighting
my inbox all day, but a good 10 out of
10." Like, sometimes good to give like a
little bit of context of like what
you've been dealing with for the day. Or
if you know that you look a mess, you
can be like, "Better on the inside than
the outside." Better on the inside than
the outside. Okay. Right. Like something
that just gets people thinking a little
bit. It kind of breaks the script. And
it makes for a very nice first
impression. So, first impressions, make
sure the conversation doesn't hit a dead
end essentially. And and and break the
script. Yeah. Break the script. Break
the script. So, like I'd rather you take
a little bit of a risk and have some
conversational courage to not do the
script, right? Because then you're going
to make a way better first impression.
And that also means not asking how are
you, but instead being like, what's
good? So, like when I start a
conversation, like anytime, I try never
to ask how are you? I try to say what's
good? Anything good today? It's a very
subtle subtle change on that and it it
makes people think for a second in a
good way. They're like, oh yeah, what's
good? And it totally changes the nature
of the conversation. I've I do this here
sometimes. So when a guest comes in, the
question that I always ask pretty much
everyone that sits down is like, "What's
front of mind for you at the moment?" Is
that a good one? I like that one a lot.
I would prefer Okay. What have you been
looking forward to? Are you looking
forward to anything in your life?
Because is that because it's positive?
Yeah. It's juicing excitement. So like
our I think our job if you want to
really be a master communicator is you
are gifting good chemicals. You know
that phrase like leave people better
than you found them. Yeah. I take that
quite literally. I think master
communicators are literally gifting
beautiful chemicals to the other person.
They're making people feel super full of
dopamine. Dopamine is like very
simplified excitement, motivation,
energy. They're gifting testosterone.
You feel capable. You feel smart. Wow,
you're good at what you do, right? And
you leave feeling like like I'm so good.
This is for men and women. You're
gifting
serotonin, calm, belonging. You got
this. You can be yourself with me. I
give you permission to be yourself. I
love you for who you are. Like I think
one of the reasons why people often
verbal vomit on me. Like they tell me
everything about their lives. I think
it's because I'm I'm like trying to gift
them serotonin. I want them to feel that
like they can be absolutely themselves
and I accept them for exactly who they
are. So serotonin, dopamine, and
testosterone. If we can gift those out,
I call it like the chemical cocktail.
Like that's the cocktail I want to give
to everyone in my conversation. And
that's what master communicators are
doing. And how would I give you all
those things? Okay. So, you break the
script by just waking me up, right?
Like, this is going to be different.
Then you ask, "What have you been
looking forward to?" Like, if you ask me
what's been front of mind, I'm going to
probably give you a negative answer to
be quite honest with you. Have you do
you usually get negative answers to that
question? Negative or neutral or it's
typically something workrelated. So,
they'll say, "My book tour, I'm trying
to get this published." Blah blah blah.
Yeah. And you're bored, aren't you? Uh,
it's somewhat interesting to me cuz I
write it down and then I'll talk to them
about it. But I mean, if it was a social
conversation, it wouldn't be
interesting. Yeah. And I would argue
like you would be more engaged if you
got an exciting answer even in this
setting. So you're bored, they're bored.
So one, if you're like looking forward
to anything, got any fun plans coming
up? Those are all like gifting little
bits of dopamine. Then capitalizing on
any moment that I call it a meto moment.
I have this theory. It's called thread
theory. And it's this idea that in
conversation we are throwing threads at
each other. So like if we have a shared
thing, I have thrown a thread, you get
it, and you pull it. And it's like
you're trying to get even more out of
me. The more threads there are between
you and me, the more we like each other
and the closer we get. Me too moments
create serotonin. When I say I like X
and you're like, what? I like X, too.
We're like
like chemically. And that makes me feel
serotonin. It makes me feel calm,
belonging. I can be myself. So anytime
in a conversation that someone says
anything that you agree with or you feel
like I have that too, you want to
capitalize and be like thread me too.
How do you stop it feeling like you're
making it about yourself though because
if you said to me you've got a cyber
truck outside. If if if you walked in
and said, "Oh, I've got a just bought a
cyber truck." And I go, "I've just
bought a cybert truck." Okay. So there's
a big difference between how you said it
and how I said it. Okay. So I say, "I
just got a cybert truck." "Oh yeah, join
the club." That's what you want me to
say? Yeah. I wouldn't say it like that
though. There is a difference here
because I'm British and British people
are very like we're very like you know
what I mean? You're so demure. Is that
what it is? We're just very Oh yeah,
join the club. Could you imagine? I
would have liked it. You would freak out
that you're saying that you would like
it because it's so weird. Not because I
like weird people. Is there anything
else in the first impressions bucket
before we move on to second impressions?
And what I mean by that is really like
how do I then cement and invest in that
relationship so I can keep it. Mhm.
Okay. So, if you've made a good first
impression, you are set up for success.
It's great. If you're making a second
impression because you weren't sure how
the last one went, right, or you want to
kind of build on it further. Your best
bet is to show them how much they were
on your mind. Everyone's number one
worry in this world is, did I leave an
impression? Am I memorable? That's what
we want to know. So, the very first
thing you want to assure them is, h, I
loved our last meeting. I've been
looking so forward to this lunch. Right?
So, can you assure them that you're so
happy to see them, talk to them, hear
from them, say anything on the phone? Oh
my gosh, I'm so glad you
called. Like that warmth of you were
right to call, you were right to text,
you were right to show up, right? Like
if someone texts me, I of course like
not if I'm texting one all day long, but
if someone texts me and I'm like, "Oh my
gosh, I'm so glad you texted." I will
literally say that. I was just thinking
of you, right? Like, "Oh, I'm so glad
you reached out. I always love our
conversations. Like that immediate
you're good here is serotonin. That
that's that belonging feeling of like
you're already safe. You're letting
someone be themselves right off the bat.
What about online first impressions? Is
there anything that I need to think
about if I'm on because so much of our
lives runs on Zoom or Google Hangouts
now. So yes. Okay. So first, can we talk
about just um like dating apps first of
all? Okay. So they've actually done
research on this. You are better off
opening with a unique word or phrase
than just hi, hello, how are you? So
like howdy if you're in Texas, even if
you're not in Texas, howdy,
aloha, what's good? Anything that's not
that hi or hello is a little bit
different. It's going to make you stand
out. So if you can Hey. Nope.
You're defeating the spirit of the study
here. Okay. Okay. So like not a hey, not
a hi, not a what's up, not a how are
you. Okay. But like, can you have like a
like like a signature phrase or like uh
bingo? I would take it. You would take
it. Bingo. I'm in your
inbox. They they study this and they
found that we're there's so much noise.
There's so much noise that if you can be
the red apple. So, this is a story when
I was I used to be a camp counselor when
I was younger. That's how I made money.
And I noticed this phenomenon during
break where I would bring always a
basket of fruit for break. And usually
it was all red apples or all green
apples. And I noticed if I had a basket
of green apples and one red apple, every
single camper had to have that red
apple. But I would ask them, "Do you
like the red apple better?" And they'd
be like, "No, I just want that one cuz
it's the only one." And I've never
forgotten that in that I think that
really special people, master
communicators are the red apple. They're
not oranges. They're still fitting in
with everyone, but they're just like a
little bit different. And that's I think
how it should be both in business and
also in romance is can you be a red
apple? Well, you're still the same.
You're not like wacko crazy, but you're
like a little different than everyone
else. So like a bingo or a howdy or an
aloha or a shalom or whatever it is. I
think that it makes you stand out just
enough where you have that kind of peak
effect. The peak effect is like you piqu
someone's curiosity a little bit and
that that really works. That's why
marketing campaigns that are a little
different, they always work better. And
what about then on Zoom and other sort
of business professional environments?
Okay, so in Zoom in professional
environments, please turn your camera
on. Yeah, please turn your camera on.
This sounds obvious, but more and more
people are turning their camera off,
especially if you have backto-back
meetings, but if you can have your
camera on just for the first few
seconds, it is a gamecher for people's
perception of you. So one is make sure
that you are not accidentally negative.
Here's how this happens.
Can you see me? Can you hear me? Oh. Oh,
hi. A lot of Zoom impressions happen
where someone is caught off guard or
they're in the middle of like, can you
see me? Can you hear me? And they're
fixing themselves and then they make a
first impression. No, your first
impression already happened. It happened
the moment your camera turned on.
Remember, your first impression on video
happens the moment someone first sees
you, not when you start talking. So,
your first impression is usually, "Hey,
morning." So, you raised your hand
there. I always I always give a wave or
a hi. I make sure my camera is at least
3 ft away from my nose. Like I literally
have measuring tape to make sure I'm not
too close. I make sure that my body is
angled towards the camera. And then
usually I have a question ready. And
here's why. In person it's so much
easier to make conversation especially
around context or like oh you know how
was it getting here? I loved your cybert
truck. Very hard on Zoom. And so what
happens is you get on you go hi. Hi.
whether good where you are. It's like
it's so awkward. Be ready. Be ready with
an anecdote or a question. I like an
anecdote. So, if you've done anything
good, interesting, seen anything good or
interesting, I want you to be ready to
share it. It sounds like this. Hey,
morning. Oh my gosh, I just discovered
the best breakfast taco in Austin. Best
breakfast taco in Austin. Have you ever
had a breakfast taco? Whatever. But like
I was ready to go with that anecdote. I
think that that's how we should
pre-start all of our video calls is like
some small anecdote or story and that
also helps in conversation like I
believe everyone should have a story
toolbox. So in conversation there are
certain topics that will always come up.
Weather, traffic, and where you're from.
So here's my challenge. This is what
master communicators do. Whenever those
three topics come up, I want you to have
one story about each of them. It could
be a trivia. It could be a story. It
could be a fact that you're ready to go
to shift the conversation away from
boring weather to something really
interesting. When someone asks, "Where
are you from?" you should say, "Oh, I'm
from Los Angeles. Interesting fact,
interesting story." That little
interesting story. Like someone the
other day said to me, "Oh, I'm from this
place in maybe Liverpool." Liverpool.
And he said, "Oh, it's where Banksiey's
from." And I was like, "Oh." And we had
a whole conversation about Banksy. And I
was like, "That was it." He said where
he was from, but instead of being
Liverpool, I'd be like, "Cool. Never
been there." He was like, "Liverpool?
It's supposedly where Bangsy from?" I
was like, "Really? But don't we do we
even know who Banksy is?" And he's like,
"Well, we don't know, but he could have
been in my high school." We had a whole
fun conversation about Banksy. And I
asked him afterwards, I was like, "Do
you always share that comment?" He's
like, "Yeah, because it creates the most
interesting conversation." So, when you
say where you're from, have an
interesting fact or interesting story.
Um, I read a book about traffic
literally to have interesting stories
about traffic. Like for example, in Los
Angeles, everyone says the 101, the
five, the 10. That's the only place in
the world where we say that. So
sometimes I'll even like someone will be
like, "Oh, traffic." And I'll be like,
"Oh, so are you athe person? Do you say
'the'? And we get in a whole
conversation about." So like I have
little things that create a little bit
of juice and I'm always rotating them
out. So in your phone, create a note
called story toolbox and have the topics
that typically come up in your
conversation and start saving little
stories for them. It is the same stuff.
It's like 80 90% of the time it's the
same stuff. It's the same questions. How
are you? Where are you? How's the
weather? Traffic. I'm constantly adding
to that story toolbox and I'm rotating
out my facts and trivia cuz I get bored.
What if you like stumble across the same
person twice and you don't realize
you've hit them with the same story?
Because if you if we do I don't talk to
the same people again. Just
if we did a couple of Zoom calls and you
kept coming on going, "Are you a that
person?" Or I'd go, "Wait a minute."
Like, no. If we were doing regular Zoom
calls, you would know that I'm probably
going to ask you what's good and you'd
probably be pre-thinking about what's
good in your life. Like I have a friend
who always asks, "What are you
learning?" And whenever I go hang out
with him, I make sure I'm learning
something. Like it actually preps me in
a good way. So you would know me for
certain questions. And that would I
think my my experience is when you're
known for asking better questions,
people actually come into the
conversation more excited with better
expectations to interact with you. So
like be known for it. Like fine, be
known for the traffic trivia. Or like
worse comes to worse. Someone says, "Oh
yeah, the the thing. We talked about
that last time." And I'll be like, "Oh
my gosh, yes." And then I forgot you're
from Ohio.
Great. I remember you. How important is
the background on your Zoom videos?
Yeah, pretty important. I also um have a
thing against like blurred out fake
backgrounds. I don't like when people
use a fake background. I think there was
actually some Harvard business research
on this, but it was during uh COVID, so
it kind of changes, you know, the the
research. But as a human, we get very
distracted by fake backgrounds. So,
please think twice about blurring out
your background or putting a fake
background around you, like, you know,
one of those backdrops. The the the eye,
it's like a green screen. You know, when
you see on a green screen, your eye is
like something is not right. people will
perceive you as more inauthentic. I
would much rather you have conversation
cues behind you, right? Like you have
the most wonderful bookshelf of cues and
captivate up there, right? Like my
books, which I love. Um, and you rotate
those books out. So, as I'm talking, if
I wanted to make conversation with you,
I could be like, "Oh my gosh, yes, Peter
Aia's book outlive so good. Did you like
it? What was your biggest takeaway from
that?" Like, it gives me gifts of
conversation. I also noticed like one
time I was looking at Kevin Hart. He was
on a Zoom call and his background was
all of his favorite comedians behind him
and it was like a great conversation
starter and he even had um uh one of the
comedians behind him was like holding up
his hand like this like literally in a
permanent hello and I was like oh my
gosh like Kevin Hart doesn't even
realize he's doing the best non-verbal
cue there is which is palms like we love
a palm and what about looking at the
camera versus looking at the face of the
person so I try to make them as close as
possible so like just physically
speaking, if you can try to make your
camera and your and the person as close
as possible, it's going to help you be
more authentic, right? So, like my my
screen is not over here. I see some
people will have the mistake of they're
like, you know, they're off to the side
as and like kind of looking over their
shoulder at the camera. Please don't do
that. So, I have mine even like up
propped up. So, like your face would be
very close to the top of the camera. If
you can get 50% eye contact with them
and 50% eye contact with the camera, I'd
be very happy. Research does show that
we can get oxytocin through a screen.
Really? Yeah. Yeah, even though it's not
real, our brain is still sort of, oh,
yeah, they're they're looking at me,
they're talking to me, they're not
hiding anything. So, 50/50 if you could
do it. Now, we were talking a second ago
about first impressions, um, then second
impressions, but also dating profile
photos yesterday or the day before. My
team here took you to a bar in Austin,
Texas, and you met two different couples
that were going on a first date, and
your job was to coach them both so they
had success on that date. And on that
first date, one member of the couple had
an earpiece in so you could speak to
them directly and give them advice on
what they should do. We're going to play
some videos for anyone that's um able to
watch, but you give me the context and
what what happened and what you
observed. I was shocked by these dates.
I was shocked because every single
person except one hid their true
feelings and that did not serve them. So
we had the very first date and they were
very well matched by the way. Like I
liked both of them. What was shocking
about this date though is the female
Ashley, I could not tell if she liked
him. I literally had no idea. And I was
in her ear. So I was whispering in her
ear things to say and to ask. I was
giving her all the warmth cuz she looked
very cold. You would never have known
she was into this guy. You would not
have known. She said, "Oh yeah, I'm
really physically attracted to him."
Like what? You didn't act attracted at
all. And her questions were all very
factbased. What I wanted her to do is
bring in more warmth so we can watch it
if you want. Let's watch. See, are you
ready to meet your lady?
Are you ready? Yeah. Okay. So, what is
going to be your opening line? This is
the We got to prepare a conversation
starters because we can't do a how are
you, a how are you? We can't do that.
What if I started with a who are you?
Okay, that breaks the scripts. I like
it. That I mean, yeah, that's like what
the Can I give you another one though?
Can you consider uh what's been good?
And remember this could also the same
tip if you were to see someone in a
grocery store, someone in the park. It's
like what's the opener when you it's
cold, right? So like I I don't like a
how are you? I don't like a what's up
dog. Yeah. Weather's great, right? No.
No. No. I know. No, no. So like like
what's what's been good or like what
feels good to you? If you see something
you like about her, feel free to
authentically compliment. If Oh god.
Right. If you're like, "Oh my gosh, you
look beautiful." You know, like that's a
good one. So I think you can ask like
what what's the goal you're working on?
Like cash still a little good. Because
then they'll say, I mean, know what do
you think you're going to be in Austin
forever? That's a very casual way of
being like, what's your five-year plan?
My goal is a little bit of depth. I know
I know you can make friends with anyone,
but I want you to see if there's like an
actual connection there. Okay. Okay. And
then to see if it's if you want a
connection with her, I want you to ask
her out at the end of the date. Yeah.
So, what did you observe there when you
watch it back? Okay. So, do you see he
got nervous? Yeah. his body langu. Oh,
because I knew it's easy for him to make
friends with anyone. And very likable
men sometimes have a have really a hard
time getting serious relationships
because they're so likable. They can
make friends with everyone. They get
confused about where the where the depth
is. Is that a bit of a defense mechanism
as well? It's a defense mechanism. It's
also what he's good at. We want to do
what we're good at, which is, you know,
making a chitchat. And a lot of people
do this on dates. They'll be like,
"Where are you from in Austin?" No,
that's the wrong question. What you ask
is, "What are your favorite secret spots
in Austin? What do you love about
Austin? What are the most underrated
restaurants in Austin?" That is breaking
the script. And that happened to them on
the stage. There was a good five or 10
minutes of boring fluff because they
were on that. And I was like, "Get to
the deeper questions." So, when you're
asking these questions to prepare ahead
of time, what's the most underrated
thing? What's your favorite thing that
would have been better? But he got very
nervous when I started. I challenged him
on depth. So, the next video is them
meeting. M feel free to pause it if
there's anything pertinent or anything
interesting you want to show me. What's
your favorite spot to go to around here
then? Um to be honest, I don't go out
very much. Okay, nice. What do you do? I
Okay, she If someone said that to me,
I'd assume they weren't interested in
me. Exactly right. Okay, so this is
called dreamkilling in conversation.
When someone asks you a question and you
shut it down by saying, "I don't do
that. I don't like that. I don't want
that with nothing else left. Like she
just stopped. I don't to be honest, I
don't really go out that much. And he
said to me afterwards, that's the thing
I'm most nervous about is that she sort
of shut that down. So when you don't
like something, don't dreamkill the
conversation. A better way to answer
that would be, you know what, I do love
to be in my jam jams at home on the
couch watching Netflix, but for the
right occasion, I can get out and party
sometimes. Mhm. That would have been a
better way to answer that question
because it's a little bit playful and
it's not totally dreamkilling his
charisma. And watch this. She's going to
act like she's not interested at all,
but she's actually very attracted to
him. She said that to me.
Work a lot. Okay. Tell him something you
love. Tell him something you love. What
do I love? Um, what do I what do I love?
What I love to do? Uh, work out, be
outside. Um, be active. Yeah, these are
waters. Okay. Yeah. I was like, I don't
know what this is. you would, you know,
if you would like one. Always, always do
a cheers. Cheers, Stephen. Cheers.
Cheers. Cheers. What does that do? Okay.
Cheers. Mhm.
It immediately warmed her up. She was
very, very stiff in this. And I was
like, I said to her in her ear, by the
way, he did not know. Kendrick, poor
Kendrick, he still doesn't know that I
was. He We never told him. I never told
him. Okay. Surprise. Um, he didn't know
that I was in her ear whispering. She
was so stiff. I said, "Tell him what you
love." because I was trying to get her
to show any kind of warmth or excitement
at all because she was so stiff and then
she still she was like, "What do I love?
I work out." I just can't believe that
she actually liked him. Yes. Because
everything about her is giving I can't
wait to leave. This is why we're having
a baby crisis. Is because we're afraid
to show that we like someone. She was
physically attracted to him and into
him. You would never know it. I was the
one saying, "Cheers him. Say what you
love. ask him about his family. And so I
think that this is a crisis because we
think we're being obvious but we are not
being obvious. Yeah. I don't know. I
know. I was just sitting here like this
is a Tuesday which is crazy. How long
have you been in Austin? Two years.
Okay. What? No. That's great,
right? Like like that's why that didn't
work. You just heard it. That's why I
don't want you to do on a date. It's a
conversational dead end. No numbers
questions. Unless you are absolutely
desperate for conversation, you're
willing to ask a follow-up. But it was
like, "How about you?" Horrible. How
long you been in Austin? She went, "Four
years." And then there was a gap. She
had no intent at all of asking a
follow-up question. Right. No. No intent
at all asking a follow-up question. And
he didn't know what to do with it. It's
funny cuz when I watched this, I think
he really likes her because he's leading
the conversation and she's just hitting
the ball back. That's right. But
actually, she was very into it. She just
didn't know how to hit the ball back.
Right. So, if you're going to be in
conversation, you want to be a master
communicator. By the way, there are
drivers and passengers in conversation.
This is what I'm researching right now.
You actually don't want all drivers,
right? Like, you don't want two people
asking all the questions, but you have
to be a good passenger. But, she should
have said two years, but actually, I
feel like Austin has changed so much in
the last two years. Have you noticed
that? Have you been here for a long
time? Like, she should have added one
more thing to not dream kill. Uh, like
three years. Okay. Yeah. I'm from Ohio.
Okay. Like the Akran area. Okay. So, ask
him what do you love about Ohio? Do you
love Do you miss Ohio? No. No, not
really. I mean, I'll go back. My whole
family's there, right? Can I ask how old
you are? Uh, guess. Oh, okay. Guess 30.
Um, 30. Yeah. Why did you say guess 30?
Okay. So, I was giving her a micro win.
So, she remember we're trying to gift
dopamine, serotonin, and testosterone.
Very simplified. It was not going great,
right? I was watching and this is like,
oh my god, we're talking about Acron
Ohio. we're in trouble now, right? So,
he tried with her. So, I knew if she
guessed right, it would like make her
feel good. And I needed her to feel
good. So, she would start driving. She
would start driving the conversation.
So, that's why I made I told I knew his
age. I'll be 31 in like a week. But,
okay. I know you're not supposed to Oh,
wait. Your birth So, you're an Aries?
Yeah, I'm an Aries, too. Me, too.
Moment. They set this up on purpose.
They literally did. Yeah. Wait, so what
day is your birthday? April 1st. Okay.
Oh, I'm March 29th. What are you Are you
serious? Yeah. I think that's my
mother's birthday. What's her body
language giving here? Very closed. Yeah.
And in I never done this before. I
wanted to say to her, "Open up. Laugh
more. Touch your lips. Touch your hair."
There's a lot of things that women can
do to show I am feeling physically
attracted to you. But I was like, like I
wasn't sure she was physically
attracted. So here I am thinking, is she
physically attracted? If she wanted to
show him I'm into you, she could have
touched her hair. She could have touched
her lips. She could have touched the
side of her face. All of those are
gestures of like self-touch that show
interest, but she didn't show any of
that. She also was see how tight, see
how little space she's taking up.
Defeated body language, let's say. So,
very, very closed off. We are going to
be in trouble if we can't show that we
like someone. I also want you to notice
as soon as they had the me too moment,
the thread theory, they both warmed up.
Yeah, they did. Yeah. Like once we get a
me too moment, it's like so much faster
to laugh more. She actually like
literally physically relaxed cuz we I
love dancing and they like always have a
DJ. It's more like clubby. You love
dancing. Say I love dancing. I love
dancing. Yeah, I love throwing ass.
That's what I She was going to let that
go, but I was trying to give her a
thread. I love dancing. And also I'm
trying to get her to say love. So a lot
of the questions I like, what do you
love about Ohio? Do you love dancing?
Like when you use more words like that,
you're actually queuing for that. I
think we talked about last time that
when you use like when they had people
split up into Wall Street and community,
people who were told they were playing
the community game actually acted in a
more communal way. When you use words
like love and excitement and good and
looking forward, you actually create
those feelings. So on a date, you want
to be using the words that you're trying
to create, especially because she
actually felt something. She liked him a
lot. But even beyond a date, right, in a
professional context. Yes. So that then
it would be like uh let's have some wins
like what's good, right? You're trying
to have efficiency and productivity and
trust and collaboration. If you want to
have a collaborative meeting, literally
in your calendar, call it collaboration
meeting. If you want to say hi team,
every time you say team, you're priming
for team. Mhm. Right. So those words
really matter. I'm I'm kind of like like
a early bed kind of person. Yeah. No, I
love that. I I'm not
I like I could like every night or just
like the weekends. I'm extremely
extroverted, so it's like, okay,
absolutely, let's go. And then it's like
I'm so tired. Yeah. Um I'm extroverted
and introverted. Like once I'm out, like
I'm not I'm probably not going home.
Yeah. But then it's like I also love my
like alone time. I'm learning. Okay. So,
do you hear she's using vocal fry? When
you use closed body language, it affects
your voice. So I vocal fry is when
you're like, I love going out and I kind
of love Right. So, she's starting to go
into a little bit of vocal fry here,
which is not attractive. We do not like
vocal fry. Why is she doing that? I
think she's doing it because she's so
closed. It's very hard to get good vocal
power when you're that closed, right?
So, you can hear it here. Wake up and
it's next week. Yeah. Yes. Who did that?
But then it's like I also love my like
alone kind. I'm learning to love it
more. Yeah. We could still go get a
drink if you wanted if you're not busy.
Or go another day after your birthday.
Okay. If you're interested, we can do
that after my birthday. Yeah. Can I ask
you a question on that? He seemed to
bottle it there. He He said, "We can go
get a drink if you want to. If you're
interested or we can go, but I I it's
cuz she didn't immediately be like,
"Yeah, no." I got a little angry after
this date. Uh basically, tell me you'd
love to go out. Just like
No, I would love to go out when I get
back. So, yeah. Yeah. Let's make it
happen.
That's in about 45 days cuz you're going
to Europe. Yeah, for 30 days. Maybe
something sooner. Are you leaving uh
like right on your birthday? No, I'm
leaving on the 21st, but that's in 10
days. And I haven't finished booking the
whole entire trip. Yeah, I know how to
run those numbers. Yeah, she rejected
him. I was real mad after the date
because I asked her, "Are you attracted
to him?" "Yes." "Did you like him?"
"Yes." Did you have fun? Yes. Would you
like to go out with him again? I'm real
busy. I was like, girl, we handed this
guy to you on a silver platter. He's
fun. You're attracted to him, and you're
too busy. Busyiness is not a mark of
success. Busyiness is going to prevent
you from finding your person. And this
is a problem we have. We're so busy with
our self-care rituals and our workouts
and our work that we are missing
opportunities for connection. And
connection is the thing that's going to
make us healthy, happy, and live a long
time. We have to stop saying we're too
busy to connect with good people. Was
she actually too busy? Like, or is she
scared or something? Cuz I just don't
understand that. I literally think she
thought she was too busy. And I was
like, get your priorities straight. And
so this is not even if you're looking
for your person. I also see this with
friendships. Friends where we we put our
friendships last. But actually, if we
were having a hard moment or a health
crisis, who do you want? your support
system and your friends. We have to
start prioritizing the connections in
our life, especially with good people.
And so I it made me angry because I
thought this could be a great person for
you. Do you know what's really wild is
had they met in a village 100 years ago,
they'd been married, married babies,
married. But I guarantee if you hadn't
intervened in this situation, and this
wasn't if you weren't sort of coercing
them to like to hang around with each
other, they'd never see each other
again. Yeah. And I said to after after
the mics were off, I was like, "Go get
him, girl. Go get him." And they did.
And they sat in the bar and they chatted
for the entire hour and they walked out
together. Yeah. They left together. By
the way, let's get some DAO babies.
Let's get some babies. I will be an
officient at the wedding. We can do it
together. I imagine Imagine if they But
it's so I've been thinking about this a
lot lately. We were talking about it as
a team. I was saying one of the issues I
think people have these days is we just
have too many options, too many choices.
Yeah. So, jam choices. Do you know the
jamster though? Yeah. Yeah. You have
two, you have, you know, 20 jams on a
table. Yeah. People will pick none
because there's too many. When there's
only three, people buy more. Yeah. Very
simple. And this is going on in dating
at the moment. Do you know what it was?
A friend of mine, um, we were having a
debate actually in the room over there a
couple of days ago. And they were saying
to me, I just need to meet more guys.
And I'm sat there thinking, your actual
job is networking. Like, you get paid to
meet people. You know more people than
anyone I know. I could say right now I
could say to this person, I need
a chiropractor in Las Vegas and this
person would should go I know the guy.
Oh wow. So I was saying like the issue
might be that you know you have too many
options. Too much jam. Too much jam.
Okay. So too many choices is one. But I
also think like we are so accidentally
we become so obsessed with our morning
routine, our evening routine, our
rituals, our self-care. Selfcare wasn't
even a thing that we talked about when I
was on social media 10 years ago. So
what happens is I see rigidity. There's
a new rigidity happening for both men
and women, but a lot of women too where,
oh, I can't go on that date because I
have to do my morning routine. I can't
do that thing because I have to get my
workout in. And I think that we are
putting our connections in last place.
When actually, if we want to know what's
really good for our health and our
longevity, it's our relationships. We
get the most of the good chemicals of
the good h happy laughs and the
endorphins when with other people and we
keep putting it last. You must meet
people though that they've been on like
a 100 dates and they they tell you that
they just can't find the person and you
go 100 dates like 100 years ago you
wouldn't even know 100 people. Yeah. And
you'd be happily married. Yes. Yes. I
also think our checklists are getting in
the way. Checklist. So many single
people I know they'll tell me they have
a list. They have a list of things that
they really want. I when I met my
husband, I did not have a list, but
there was just a connection there. And
even though we're very different on
paper, it just worked. And so I think
that when people have a checklist, it
actually blinds them to seeing a
connection right in front of their face.
Yeah. And she said to me, I don't know
if this is on camera or not, so
hopefully it's okay if I share it, but
she's like, you know, I just I don't
know if he's as career oriented as I
was. Like that's really important to me.
And I knew that was on her list. On her
list, on her internal list, career is
right up top. Now, they didn't even talk
about career. So, I said, "Well, do you
did you even know what he does?" Well,
no. So, she was judging him based on his
personality. That's it. And it didn't
check the list. And so, what can happen
on these dates is they become very
conversationally transactional. What do
you do? Check. Where are you from? Don't
know. Check. So, you're trying to get
You want kids? Mhm. So this these
checklists I think are creating a lot of
rigidity and then you add in the
busyiness the busyiness trap which is
I'm so successful I'm so busy busy is
not a mark of success. Do you think
there's also an element that we've got
more and more ambivalent with if we the
more and more we date the more it
becomes transactional the more we show
up with without passion or interest or
curiosity.
I I don't know if that's ambivalence. I
think that is
um numbness.
Like people have gotten really
attractive. I don't know if you've
noticed this. Yeah, they have. My
goodness, people are so pretty. Like I'm
on Instagram and I'm like, "How does
everyone look so good?" Like I I didn't
really know anyone with an eight pack
when I went to school. Like did you like
No. No. Cuz that wasn't really a thing.
I'm like old, right? Like I No, no one
had that. There was no social media. So
like people had like, you know, normal
looks. Now people are extremely
attractive. And so I think that the bar
has gone up so that we're all like numb
to how beautiful people are, how funny
people are, how kind people are because
we've been on a thousand dates or the
funniest best thing they ever did is on
their Instagram and we saw it. So
anything else is like h
seen it
like nothing is impressive
anymore. Like I there's two challenges I
recommend for people who are in like
kind of a funk. Like if you're in like a
you're burnt out or you're feeling
lonely or you're like things are not
working, there's two challenges you
could consider. The first one is really
hard and it's the no mirror challenge.
It's you go 30 days without looking in a
mirror. Something really crazy happens
when you cannot see yourself and see how
good you look and see what you look
like. And it's especially powerful for
women. I did it for 30 days. Um and I
went, you have to do all your normal
things. You have to go to meetings. You
have to go out but without looking in a
mirror which means you usually you don't
wear makeup, you know, you don't do your
hair, you kind of just go out as you
are. First you realize that people still
like you even if you don't look perfect.
So no mirror challenge can give you a
lot of confidence and also can show you
where your true relationships, your true
friends are. The second challenge is a
social media or an online blackout
challenge which is if you don't have any
dopamine from your phone, you have to go
get dopamine oxytocin from inerson
relationships. So if you have a blackout
where you cannot go on any social media
or have any kind of interactions on your
phone and you have to go out in person,
you actually do. Like I remember when I
used to travel for work and I'd get to a
city and there was nothing to do. Like
there was no phone in my hotel. I did
not have an iPad. You could read a book
or you could try to go out. And that's
what I would do. I would like get to a
city and I'd be like, "Well, I have
nothing to do in the hotel room." There
was literally nothing to do. I had my
book or I could go to the hotel bar or I
could go walk around the city. And I met
more people in that time of my life than
I do now, even though I'm connected to
more people than ever. I was just
thinking then about something someone
said to me a couple of days ago, which
links to what you're saying. Someone
said to me
that much of the cause of the insult
culture is these young men spend lots of
time playing video games and the video
games gives them the sense of
accomplishment, the sense of building.
It also gives them the like dopamine hit
when you like win a sword or some coins
or something. And so I was just also
thinking about that in the context of
being like a workaholic. Like if I'm
working all day every day on a screen
and I'm constant, which is what I do,
when it comes to like going out and
meeting people and networking, for me
it's like hell. And I'm wondering if
there's a link there. I'm like maybe if
I wasn't on the screen all for like 12
hours a day, I'd have more dopamine left
over to go speak to somebody. Dopamine.
And also the energy flip wouldn't be so
massive. The energy that you're using on
your computer is very much output,
right? like you're you're putting your
energy into your machine to create
content of some kind. When you go out,
it's a feedback. It's back and forth.
Yeah. Go having your brain switch from
one to the next is very jarring. And if
you already get dopamine from your
screen, why what's the motivation for
going out in person? There's only
downside. My computer has never
energized me, but these conversations
always do. Mhm. Yeah. Why would you go
out? You're already having the best
conversations you can do, and you're in
control. And look, I don't know. Just
saying. I think you like control. Do you
think I like control? In what context do
you think I like control in? The reason
I I bring up the control thing is if you
are on social media, you are in complete
control. You decide how often you
scroll. You decide where you click. You
decide when you're done with someone,
you just exit their video. Well, you
know, in conversation, if I don't like
your answer, I can't go off.
I can't turn your volume down. I can't
double click on your like. I actually
have to sit and listen to you. And I
think that, you know, if you're in
control of your conversations and even
like at this table, you are in control.
Like I'm talking a lot, but like you
could interrupt me anytime you want and
I will answer whatever question you ask
me. And so I wonder, don't be mad at me.
If in like real conversation, like I
could ask you anything that I want. Like
right now I have a thousand questions
for you, but I'm trying to not ask them.
Ask me the questions. Well, I asked you
the one about control, but you didn't
really answer. You attached it back to
me.
You don't think you're a control freak?
Probably. Okay, thank you. Yeah,
probably. It's all context dependent
because when you said control freak, I
was like, well, I don't have any control
in that part of my life. That's like a
democracy. But typically in in business,
I think that I'm a control freak. Yeah.
If you ask my team, they'd say, "Yeah,
he's a control freak." So, I would
control freak. Am I? He's laughing.
He was already laughing about it.
Thank you, Jack. You're welcome. So, I'm
not a control freak. This is this is No,
I am. Yeah. So, I think look, I don't
know. But my guess would be why you
don't want to go, you know, out with
people is because you have to give up
control and you you you have to be in a
conversation where you might be asked
something that might be boring or you
don't like it. And like why? Why? I do
struggle. I really struggle with like um
going to like networking events and
stuff. I really struggle with that
stuff. I don't love a networking event,
but I've found that if I have a very
specific goal, yeah, it's better. So,
like for example, if I like I'm
researching my next book. I'm looking
for conversational case studies. So, if
I am going to the event and I'm like,
okay, tonight I'm going to try a new
question and see how it goes. You know,
I'm then I'm like, okay, I have a
purpose. Or if I'm like, I'm going to
practice some new jokes. or if I'm like
I'm looking from a a new you know
business inspiration like that helps me.
So I think no one really likes
networking events but if you have a goal
it makes it a little bit better. Just
for a second I want to talk about a
company I've invested in and who
sponsors this podcast called Zoe. Like
me many of you are big on tracking your
fitness and your sleep. But how many of
you understand how your body handles
food? Metabolic fitness is all about
understanding your metabolism's response
to food. And we all react differently.
So Zoe created a test to help you
understand how your body responds. And
it starts with their famous test
cookies, which are identical test meals
with the same sugar, fat, and calorie
content of the average meal, and
therefore acts as a metabolic challenge.
You also wear a continuous glucose
monitor that tests your blood sugar
levels. I've done this test, and it left
me wondering how my metabolic fitness
compared to others like me, and my
results revealed everything. So, if
you'd like to learn about your body's
response to food, head over to zoey.com
to order your test kit now. And if you
want a discount, use code steen10 at
checkout for 10% off your membership. As
a Zoey member, you'll get an athome test
kit and personalized nutrition program
to help you make smarter food choices
that support your health. That's zoe.com
with code
steen10. We're talking about business
there. If I want to communicate more
effectively as a leader in business, are
there any ways that I can become a
little bit
more I guess there's different types of
leaders that struggle with different
things, but how do great leaders
communicate? What do they do? Well, oh,
this is my favorite
topic. As a leader, especially if you're
trying to get meet people and new
people, especially your what do you do
needs to be I am a who
helps. A lot of leaders struggle with
building the right connections and so
they'll be very either like intellectual
with their answer. So like or very
vague. So like I've heard business
leaders say, "Oh, you know, um I run a
tech
company." That that is a dream killer
for a conversation. People don't know
what to do with that. So what you're
better off saying is, "I have a tech
company and we help aspiring cooks." So
this kind of actually pulls us to
another conversation you had in our fake
date scenario. Yeah. If you click on the
first link there with the with the
gentleman whose name is Tim. Tim. Oh
yeah, Tim. I found it really fascinating
watching you help Tim introduce his
profession. I love Tim. So Tim is my
person. Okay. Tim is my person. Like he
he Let me tell you about Tim. So Tim is
a code monkey/software engineer which
we'll watch that video in a second. He
is highly technical. He's very kind. He
loves what he does. And on the date, he
was actually the only person of the four
speed daters who showed warmth the
entire time. And I didn't know. I even
said to Jack, I was like, "I think he's
into her." And I asked him afterwards. I
said, "Are you into her?" And he said,
"No." And I was very impressed with him
because he still showed warmth,
congeniality, and kindness even though
he wasn't physically into her. And I was
like, "This is magic."
I also think that Tim came across as a
little bit nervous and a little bit
awkward and I was like, "Oo, Tim, if we
could just dial up your confidence and
add that to your warmth, you are going
to find your person." And so, I love
Tim. We can watch his interaction. The
first clip of Tim there, I thought was
fascinating. That one there. Okay.
You're going to have a great date.
First, I can I help you out with some
some advice? Yeah. Okay. So, ignore the
cameras completely. Okay. Um, you're
making great eye contact, which I love.
Um, she's probably going to ask you,
"What do you do?" Okay. What is your
answer to that question? I am a code
monkey or a software engineer. Okay,
cool. So, anytime I meet a software
engineer, it's a good answer, but it's a
conversational dead end. Yeah. Because
unless I'm a software engineer, I don't
know what to say. So, I'm like, so what
I want you to do is actually create a
hook. So, you're going to say, um, so
what kind of coding do you do? Uh, I do
a lot of backend stuff. That's probably
too much. Nope. Don't even know what
that is. You have to think of a hook to
give me so that you don't have this.
What do you do? Software engineer. What
do you do? Teacher, cuz we have to have
a We can't You can't say I'm a software
engineer. Do you like art? We can't do
that, right? How long have you been
doing it? How about that? I've been
doing it for five to six years and been
loving my team so far. So Oh, do you
lead a team? Uh, I hope to one day, but
not right now. But you love your team.
Okay. So I think that that could be your
hook. So, I think you could say like I'm
a code monkey aka software engineer. Um,
the best part of my job is playing with
code all day, but also like hanging out
with my team. Yes. Then you're giving me
a lot of hooks that I can then say next.
Any body language questions for me. Your
body language looks great. You're making
eye contact. I love your visible hands.
You already watched my Stephen
interview. Oh, sometimes. Okay. Okay.
Perfect. So, I think it's great. Mutual
laughing is really good, too. So, like
that's great. If you're ever nervous,
just just laugh. Okay. It's gonna go
really well. Okay. You got this. Okay.
So this is exactly what happens with
highly competent folks is they have an
answer to the question that's just the
answer. That's not how good conversation
works. Master communicators make it very
easy for people to ask a follow-up
question or to get hooked in. So
whatever your answer is as a leader. You
want to give people enough hook to be
able to be like, "Oh, I want to know
more about that." Software engineer
didn't do that for Tim. Now her response
to this question is
terrible. Terrible. Did you see what
happened in the date? No. Oh my
goodness. So, uh, what do you do?
Cheers. Cheers to you as well.
Um, I am an AI consultant and I make
tech content. Oh, okay. Yes. In the tech
space. In the tech space. Yes. Awesome.
What about you? I am a code monkey or
code monkey? Yeah. Oh, no. No. Software
engineer. No. I love my job. Tell them
something good. Okay.
Yeah, we love code monkeys. Yeah. No. Uh
I used to be a code monkey. No way.
Yeah. You used to um for like six years,
seven maybe. Yeah. Did you like it? Um I
did, but I Okay. I thought I liked it
and then I realized I didn't. No way.
Yeah. It was like one of those things
where after it's over you're like, "Wait
a second. I wasn't that happy." Do you I
have to say I don't think he should call
himself a code monkey. Yeah. Yeah, it's
a bit it's demeaning. Yeah. And also
people people don't know what it is
really. Like I didn't even really know
what it was. I was like what? But it
sounds kind of you her reaction was
telling. She went oh no I know. And so
so so she says oh no. So first of all I
said to her afterwards why did you do
that? If you disagree with someone, you
can disagree with them but then give
them something else. So she was
basically like oh no. And then he's like
yeah I love what I do.
Yeah. But I think he has responsibility
there because he shouldn't describe
himself as a code a monkey anything.
Yeah. The minute you you sound like you
are
a like
a involuntary like slave to something
against your will. Totally. If I said I
was a podcast monkey, you wouldn't think
you wouldn't think, "Oh, amazing. I'm so
happy for you." Would you? No. I'd be
like weird. Exactly. It's the word
monkey that they're adding makes it seem
painful. I I think you're right. He He
came up with a better answer. And this
is like this is the takeaway for leaders
is what question are you asked all the
time? I know people in business are
asked the same questions all the time
either networking or in their business
pitches. I always think this when I
watch Dragons Den or Shark Tank is like
you were you knew this question was
coming. You want to have a really really
good answer. And so making sure that
you're ready for the answer and the more
stories you can use the better, right?
Like that's why I'm like I want you to
start that note in your phone of all the
stories of all the different topics that
come up is it's so important to have
good answers with those questions that
you know are coming your way. What's a
great answer then? Give me an example of
a great answer. So if I'm the CEO of a
media company, what's a great answer? If
someone says, "What do you do?" Yeah.
I'm the CEO of a media company. So you
want to start with clarity. So what is
it exactly you do? I I don't like people
who have like these crazy weird metaphor
metaphors for like Right. Right. So tell
them what you I'm a CEO of a media
company and uh you know we work with
amazing clients like so tell me who's
the best client you worked for the most
interesting client you worked for what's
the most interesting project you worked
for like tell me that story or tell me
how you moonlight so if your job is
boring be like oh you know I'm a CEO of
a media company but um I garden on my
free time like like give me the the side
hustle so I can say oh what kind of
media or tell me about the gardening so
give an interesting story about who it
is you work for or give me a side hustle
that's really interesting or a passion.
And I heard you say that using the word
because as a leader is important to
getting people to come with you. Humans
need reasons. When there is a reason,
even if it's a silly reason, it helps us
feel more motivated. So, it's a very,
very silly study that was done that
looked at this where they had people go
up to a copy machine in a library and
ask, "Can I make copies?" Now, everyone
who's in the line for the copy machine
has to make copies. Mhm. They found that
people who went up to the line to to cut
the line and said, "Um, excuse me. Can I
make some copies?" They got rejected.
They were like, "No, dude. Get in the
back of line. We're all making copies."
But if someone said, "Excuse me, can I
make copies? I really have to copy
this." Like, with a reason, people were
more likely let them cut. Even though it
was exactly the same thing as the first
thing. The point of the study was to
show that if you have a because, even if
it's a silly because, people are more
likely to do things for you. Now, I
don't love this idea, but I think the
important point for us is you want to
know your why. That's why I said tell
people who you help. So, if you're a CEO
of a media company, who you help is your
most interesting client. Or if you're a
life coach, don't just say, I'm a life
coach or I'm a a consultant. I'm a life
coach. I help women who really want to
get their nutrition under control. Then
I know who you work for. That's your
why. And that gives someone a reason. or
you know, I'd really love to work with
you. I think that I could really really
change your nutritional outlook and put
you in more control of your of your
nutrition. That because even though it's
implied, even though I already heard it,
it hooks someone in to go, "Ah, if they
have a why, I can buy into that why."
Mhm. And I don't think he did a very
good job on that. However, he was very
warm with her even though he wasn't into
it. I thought that was very respectful.
How are either of them supposed to know
if the other person is attracted to
them?
Exactly. This is why I'm doing what I'm
doing. The number one thing that is
causing loneliness is we are withholding
our liking both with friends and in
romance. With all of these daters, none
of them, 0% showed any kind of obvious
liking. How are we going to have babies?
How are we going to have marriages if
we're withholding our liking? How are we
going to have friends if we don't know
if someone likes us? I think we should
be going around showing, amplifying our
likes to people that we're with. So, how
do I signal that I like someone? and how
do I know if they like me? Okay, so
verbally I think it's very easy, right?
You can be very direct and be like, "Oh
my gosh, this is so much fun." So like
my magic phrases, right? If someone is
interesting, funny, likable, fun, say in
that moment, h this is so fun. This is
so interesting. Being with you is always
so interesting. So that's one way you
can do it is affirming the adjective
that you're already feeling and saying
it out loud, right? Like I think that
Kendrick was very funny. And I actually
said to him in our like pre-in I was
like, "Oh, you're really funny. That
must be a double-edged sword." He was
the first guy. The first guy. Yeah. I
said, "You're really funny." And that
made him feel really good. I was like,
"Oh, yeah. Yeah, I am." And I was like,
"I think that's good, but also probably
it's harder to get depth." He's like,
"Yes, that's true." So if someone is
funny, interesting, delightful, a good
conversationalist, tell them. That's the
first thing is like don't withhold that.
We don't tell people, do we? Never. We
don't tell people. Just thinking about a
meeting I had last week and I was
thinking God if id started that meeting
just by telling the person what I
thought of them really positive thing it
would have completely probably made them
feel good. Yes. Goes back to your point
about giving them serotonin or and it
makes you more likable. Like we like
people who like us. So the more obvious
you are with your liking actually just
makes you more likable. So affirming
them, making sure that they know that
you were thinking of them. So like I was
just thinking of you. I was so looking
forward to this. I was looking forward
to this all day. And then non-verbal
liking. So for men, vocalizations. H oh,
we love those. We love a triple nod. We
love a head tilt. We love a lean. All of
those. Yeah.
Seem, oh, you know, I there was
something funny that I read recently,
which is
women list humor as a number one trait
they want in a man. Men don't care as
much about humor in a woman. They want a
woman who laughs at their
jokes. Of course, I thought this was so
good and so helpful that that for a man,
yes, it's good if you can work on being
funny because women do like it. But if
you're a woman, you actually don't have
to be that funny. You just have to be
willing to laugh. And that brings me
back to liking. Being an easy laugher,
like being ready to laugh is one of the
most likable complimentary things you
can do for someone else.
If that was good, thank you. I like,
was this real or not real? We like it. I
like it. You couldn't even tell. Well,
that's a very believable laugh. It was
good. There's sometimes people will like
withhold their laughing or like they'll
be like, "Oh, that's funny." Right? So,
being an easy laugher is also like the
fastest way to tell someone, "I like
you." When we laugh, we are absolutely
showing we like someone. So, non-verbal
and verbal liking is like very What if
you're not funny? Because a lot of
people, we've sort of categorize
ourselves as being a funny person or a
not funny person. So, is there a way if
you're not funny to be funny?
Yes. And it's being the best passenger
ever. If you're not a joke teller, the
joke teller is the driver, right? In a
conversation. They're telling funny
stories. They're telling funny
anecdotes. They're very funny. They're
driving. Well, drivers need passengers
to laugh at their jokes. So, you are
going to be the best passenger ever.
You're going to laugh at the joke.
You're going to bang on the table. I
love table bangers. You know, I have
people in my life who are not very
funny, but they love to bang on the
table when I tell a funny joke and that
makes me feel so good. They don't need
to be funny. I'm happy to try. Right?
So, if you're not funny, just be very
good at hyping up other funny people.
You also could be a curator of funny.
You find the best funny gifts. You find
the best funny clips. You share the best
funny posts. Like, you don't have to be
funny to be a curator of funny. Like, I
have a friend who's not that funny, but
he has the best clips and memes that he
sends me. And so I think of him as funny
even though he's never told a joke. He's
just passing on other people's funny
totally. But it it it's associated with
him. But that does make him funny cuz he
knows how to select funny. Cuz I've got
a friend who sends like the worst gifts
like they're never funny ones. But
doesn't it make you laugh?
Gifts. What do I mean? The gifts are so
sad. I've got one friend. My friend
Ashley sends five gifts. But I got this
other friend who I can't name. Yeah.
Please don't name them. No. Just in case
everyone's listening. He literally sends
not funny gifts. We've all got a friend
that sends like the bad meme and you
there's like they drop it in the chat
and everyone's like thumbs up, you know?
But like, doesn't it make you kind of
laugh? Don't you love them for it? I
love them, but I think could they
improve their meme game? Yeah. Like I I
wouldn't take the
risk. I had hit me fire emojis in a long
time. I wouldn't be without conviction.
Okay. I If that was them, if that was
me, if I'm like I'm not that funny, I
can learn to be funny. Do you think you
can learn to be funny? I I think I have.
Like I think I I've learned to be a
little bit funny with like my sense of
humor. I think um take an improv class.
Like really really take an improv class.
A lot of humor is just trying things and
seeing if they land. So if you're not
funny and you want to be and like
something good to work on, take an
improv class and work on being funny on
stage. I also think you can study funny
people and see how they make their
jokes. Like and you can have the same
jokes. For example, I have a friend who
whenever he's over at our house and I
say, "Babe," to my husband, he goes,
"Yes." And it's always funny. It's
always funny. It's the only joke he
really makes, but I love it. And so, I
think that you can also have like sort
of jokes that you figured out that you
just use over and over again. And touch,
is that a cue of interest? Yes, I love
touch, but you have to be a little bit
careful with it because if you do it
inauthentically or awkwardly, it's like
a total fail and looks terribly,
horribly wrong. I love a high five. Like
I love like, "Oh my gosh, that was
great." Yes. Oh my gosh, we're both into
that. Like I love like you're making you
can pull off high fives. What? Like I
don't know whether this is a British
thing or not, but if I started
high-fiving people in in meetings,
people would think I was very strange.
No, I think people would like it. No, I
think I think it's I think people have
like a model of you. Okay. I think they
understand like the upper limits of your
enthusiasm when you're excited, who you
know, your playfulness. I think
high-fiving it's outside your bubble.
Jamaima, do you know Jamaima out there?
She could high five. She'd get away with
it because that's like I think I have
high five Jamaima. There you go. Yeah.
Okay. So, all right. Find your thing.
You have a flavor. Yeah. Right. Everyone
has a flavor. Your flavor is not
high-fiving, but it's probably something
else like a dry sense of humor. In fact,
they they did a study where they looked
at worriers and not worriers, like
neurotics and non neurotics. Neurotics
are known for making self-deprecating
jokes, and we like it about them. Like,
they're constantly making fun of
themselves, and we like it. Whereas low
neurotics, people who are not warriors,
who are like really confident, they love
to make jokes about other things but
never about themselves. So like everyone
has like their flavor and that's good.
You got to find it. And you should study
people who are like you, right? Like
there has to be like I love to watch um
like uh those talk shows like you know
Jimmy Kimmel or whatever. And I pay
attention to the interviews that have
more than one laugh every 30 seconds. So
my goal in a keynote like I give a lot
of keynotes for organizations. I try to
have a laugh every minute if I can. I
think that if you have a laugh every
minute, you're considered funny and that
actually opens up the brain to more
learning. So on interviews, I pay
attention to who are the interviews,
what are the interviews where they're
getting a laugh every 30 seconds, 30 to
60 seconds. And I'm paying attention to
how are they doing it? And that is how
I've learned to be funny. Like for
example, like a really easy one for for
humor I've learned is like if you have
like one, two, three things and the
third thing is weird, people almost
always laugh. So, if you're like, "Oh,
you know, Texas is great. What's the
land of uh tacos, cowboy hats, and hot
girls?" Like, if you make the third
thing a weird one, people kind of like,
"Ha." Like, they think it's funny. And
so, like, if you have like you can begin
to play with those things if you learn.
But, I've noticed that as a pattern just
like anecdotally by watching people. So,
I think you could find someone who's
like you. Like, you should find a a
British smart guy. Who's a British smart
guy who's funny?
Jack. Jack's smart. Okay. D and just
like see what kind of jokes they're
making. I bet you those jokes will work
for you too. They do. Yeah. Yeah. I like
steal jokes from British Mafia for sure.
So like that works. I also think there
was a study that was done about like
charisma and we're talking about master
communicators especially leaders. I work
with a lot of leaders and what I tell
them is you can actually channel your
role model that will completely change
your body language. They asked
presenters to present on stage a little
one minute presentation which by the way
very hard to do if you're not a
presenter. So they had have them give a
little presentation on stage and they
took them off and they said, "Okay, now
we want you to channel Steve Jobs and
give another presentation." Now don't
tell anyone what you're doing, but just
in your mind just just channel him. When
they got on stage, they were more
charismatic. They used more vocal
variety. They used more hand gestures.
They were more confident. They spent
almost double the amount of time on
stage and they liked it more simply by
channeling Steve Jobs. So, I share this
because I think you don't necessarily
have to be funny or charismatic on your
own, but if you're channeling the most
funny person you know or the most
charismatic person you know, it can
transform your vocal and non-verbal cues
to be more like that person. Micro
expressions. Yes. Okay. I feel like when
I ask you a question, every question is
your favorite question. I have some that
are not my favorites, but you haven't
asked them yet. Okay, good. Okay, good.
This is what got me into into this work
was actually micro expressions. So there
are many people, especially if you have
um narcissists in your life, who
misinterpret neutral expressions as
negative. So one of the problems I had
early on that caused me to be awkward is
I thought everyone hated me. I thought
everyone was angry at me. So I would
misinterpret the expression. I would
think they hate me, which made me even
more awkward. It was a very bad cycle.
So what one of the first things I
discovered with this work where I was
like, why doesn't everyone know this? I
was 20 years old and I stumbled upon
this idea that some of our expressions
are universal that across cultures and
genders and races we make the same
facial expressions for the same
emotions. Now there's some some
controversy about microp expressions and
how universal they are but there are
seven that we've found have a lot of
universal applications and I would love
to teach you those seven please. Okay,
let's actually start with fear. So fear
is a universal response and when we make
this face it helps keep us safe. It's
when we widen our eyes so our eyelids
our upper whites show we raise our
eyebrows up and we usually open our
mouth like that. The reason we make this
face innately is because if we see a
tiger like back from caveman days our
mouth opens takes in oxygen and opens in
case we have to yell for help or run for
our lives. Our eyebrows and our eyelids
lift up so we can take up as as take in
as much of the space as possible. The
safest face I can make as a human is
this
one. Right? I can say anything. I can
take in oxygen. I can see as much as
possible. That is why we make that
expression expression when we feel fear.
When we see it and you see it a lot in
business environments, you are spotting
oh I just tapped into a little bit of
nervousness and it typically happens
around confusion. So, I will sometimes
be giving a presentation and I'll notice
someone will
go and I know I just said something that
they didn't like or they made them
nervous or that makes them feel a little
bit afraid and I can say, "This makes
sense. Are we all good? Let me rewind
and reexlain that again." So, I spot the
fear and I immediately address it. So,
what you want to look for is those upper
whites of someone's eyes. That's how you
know that someone just triggered you
triggered a little bit of nervousness in
them. When you say upper whites of
someone's eyes, what you what you mean?
I literally mean the upper whites up
here. So, not lower. Like when I'm
afraid, my eyes peel up so you can see
the upper whites of my eyes. It's very
unnatural to do that, right? Like you
would never do that normally. We do that
when we're actually feeling afraid. Now
I I tend to raise my eyebrows up to show
like a punctuation, but this is like
it's a much bigger expression. Yeah. So
when you see it, make sure that you
immediately address it so you calm that
fear. Okay. So fear is the first one.
The second one that I want to talk about
is disgust. So disgust is a very
negative emotion. We make it when we
don't like something. So, it's when we
crinkle our nose up and flash the upper
whites of our
teeth. Yeah, it's a space. We do it to
inhibit our nasal passages, like when we
smell something bad or taste something
bad. But, interestingly, we also do this
when we don't like something we hear or
see. I I see this a lot with lie
detection. So, we do a lot of lie
detection research and I've noticed
lying makes people feel dirty. We do not
like to lie. And so people will often
lie as they'll make the disgust
expression as they're lying. So I'll
say, you know, so what do you think of
the new guy? Oh, yeah. Yeah, you know,
he's pretty good. And they hold this
expression up. Look for secret disgust.
If you ask someone a preference-based
question, if they are lying, they will
often show disgust because they're
literally disgusted with themselves for
having to make that distinction. So it's
an inhibitor. And you always want to
look up here. We don't do that
naturally, right? We don't do that
naturally at all. So, that's a really
good one to look out for. Also, you can
predict behavior better with disgust,
right? So, if you ask someone a question
and they go,
um, you know that they're not in a good
headsp space. That's when you
immediately want to give permission.
Hey, look, I'm on your side. I'd rather
just know what you really think. I have
prevented lies. Yeah. By giving someone
full permission to just tell me the
truth. Yeah. I think I'm I pull that
sometimes when I don't want to do
something. So, someone might say, "Do
you want to go to this restaurant?" I
go,
Yeah. And you don't even realize you're
doing it because we make it
accidentally. It looks like a mulling
but actually I've given away that I
actually don't want to go. And why not
be in relationships where we can say,
"Hey, look, we're good. We don't have to
go to dinner." Yeah. Like I'd much
rather say that. Okay, that's disgust.
Anger is a really interesting one. So
anger, they did computerenerated faces
and they found that when you make the
components of anger, it makes your face
look stronger. People perceive you as
stronger. So the reason we make this
from an evolutionary perspective is
because when we are angry it makes us
look physically strong which makes sense
before we get into a fight. So anger is
when we usually uh tense our lids, we
pinch our shoulders together and we
harden our lips and we often jut our jaw
out. So jut your jaw at mem like before
a fight people often will be like what's
up? What's up? They jut their jaw out
because it makes you look stronger. It's
a way of like showing territorial
gestures. And we also tense our lips and
tense our eyes. This makes us see
better. So, right before a fight. No,
you look confused. Okay. I'm sorry. I'm
trying to Okay. So, so, um, harden your
lips. Yeah. I thought I had a heart on
my legs. Oh, you actually did it
perfectly just a second ago. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. And then, um, you see those
vertical lines appear and then tut your
chin out at me. Yeah. That's like, what
are you doing? I don't like this. And if
you hold that expression, you'll begin
to feel angry and defensive. Isn't that
weird? Yeah. So, it makes you look
strong. That's why we make that face. I
always look out for in the business
environment. You don't often see that
full anger, right? But you will often
see a chin jut. So if I'm like in a
meeting or I'm a team call and I'm
looking and someone goes,
"Yeah, I know that I've just made them a
little bit angry." Typically in anger,
people do two things. They go on the
offensive or the defensive. I want to
prevent either. So when someone's angry,
they go, "It's not my fault, it's your
fault." Offensive. Or they go on the
defensive. Not my fault. I don't want
that. Right? So they'll often attack or
they get very defensive and I want to
disengage that completely. So I'll say
hey look we are on the same page. If you
see someone in anger you want to
immediately go into shared mutual
understanding mutual goals. Mhm. Okay.
So that's anger. Let's talk about a good
one which is happiness. So happiness
we've talked about before which is the
only true expression of happiness is
when the happiness reaches all the way
up into our upper cheek muscles all the
way up here.
I know I've tried so hard with the
smiling thing since we last met but it's
really not going well for me. I know.
But when you are happy, like when you
laughed earlier authentically, it does
it automatically. It already does it. So
it's this upper cheek muscles. When we
reach those upper cheek muscles, don't
fake smile. I'd rather you real smile.
That looks good. Does it actually? Yeah.
Yeah, that was good. That looks good.
Oh, yes. I like it. I'm always on the
lookout for fake smiles, right? Like
especially in in the work setting is if
someone especially in sales, I do a lot
of sales trainings. If someone's like,
"Oh yeah, I I love this, but they don't
love it. You're not done selling." Like
keep building rapport. So you're looking
for the absence of real happiness.
That's what you really want. And that's
really You said it's about this section.
Yeah. This section of your face. So this
should go up and the eyes all the way
up. Yes. And you remember anyone can
fake smile. It's all in your upper cheek
muscles. All in your upper cheek
muscles. Okay. Here. Yeah. Like
that. That's it. That's why you have to
be careful with Botox because um there's
a lot of I could talk a lot about Botox
if you want to, but when people um Botox
their smile wrinkles, they actually feel
less happy. So there's a feedback
hypothesis of when you show an emotion,
you actually begin to feel the emotion.
So people who have Botox their smile
wrinkles can't make a true happy face
and actually feel less happy. It's also
the same with negative emotions. So if
you Botox your anger, you'll actually
feel less angry. They've started to use
it for anger management is if you botox
your anger muscles, you actually are
less volatile. So there's all kinds of
things that happen with our face when we
begin to change it. Damn. Okay, so
that's anger. Um, sadness. Yeah, sadness
is the most contagious of all the
expressions. So, sadness is the hardest
one to fake. It's It's really hard to
do. So, the first thing is you pull your
mouth down into a frown and then you
puff out your lower lip. Mhm. And then
you pinch your eyes together and kind of
droop your lids. Mhm. Uh-oh. Made you
yawn. You know what's funny is if you
make a sadness expression, it will
either make you yawn or cry. Oh, your
eyes watering. Yeah, it worked. I think
the yawn made the eyes water. But it's
all but it's all part of the same
system. Oh, right. Isn't that crazy? So
funny. Yeah. Isn't that weird how that
happens? So, you know you've made a good
facial expression or a good sadness
expression when you actually begin to
tear up. Mhm. They found that when
babies want attention, they pout out
their lower lip because we find it quite
cute, right? Like when babies do that,
we're like, "Oh, we need to we need to
help you." So, it's actually
evolutionary that when we do that, it
actually is a way that we get help. So,
when I see that that downward frown,
he'll pull their mouth into a downward
frown. I know that something is going on
for them. And I'm careful with this at
work especially. It's empathy,
compassion, or space. Like if someone's
going through something at work, you
don't always want to be like, "Well,
tell me about your divorce. Go ahead and
tell me about that." No, you might want
to be like, "Look, if this is not a good
time for a meeting, we can reschedule.
We don't have to do this right now." So,
I think that space is sometimes the best
thing. Or can I help? But it's hard to
tell the difference. It's hard to tell.
So I guess you you've just got to ask.
Yeah. And I think like that's the the
mistake that people make when coding
emotions is they think that they have to
rely completely on their own reading.
No. If you see an expression you don't
know what it means, be like, "Hey, all
good. Are you good? You want to tell me
anything?" Like asking for clarity, no
matter what the emotion is, whether it's
good or bad, is always good. A little
trick I also use, if you want to calm
someone down and you're not sure what's
bothering them, name an emotion you
think it is and have them correct you.
So, I will often use the word upset
because people will almost always
correct you. So, I'll say, "Are you
upset?" "No, I'm not upset. I'm angry."
"Oh, good. Now, we're at least on the
same page. I know that you're angry."
Interesting. And that really works well.
Sometimes that winds people up a little
bit. Yeah. But at least you hit the
truth. True. It does start the
conversation. Yes. And it gets you to
the truth of like, what are they
actually feeling? Okay, we did those
ones. Um, contempt. Contempt and
surprise, I believe, are last. So, we'll
do contempt last. Surprise is a very
easy one. It's actually the longest of
the micro expressions because we want to
see it from far away.
So, right, we just like go as wide as
possible. Um, surprise is not positive
or negative. The most important thing
about surprise is the difference between
surprise and fear. Here's why. If I say
to you, did you know about that email
that was going to be sent out on Monday
to the whole team? Surprise, I had no
idea.
versus fear I didn't know. So surprise
versus fear is very important when
you're trying to gauge um does someone
know something or not know something. It
works really well with kids and
teenagers too because they're bad at
hiding it, right? They're really bad at
hiding it. And so like if you're like
did did you did you take my
phone? Probably not. Or probably did,
right? Like you know another I think did
I tell you my favorite one with kids is
also nodding. Nodding cues work really
well with kids and partners. if you
didn't hear it from me. Where if we when
we nod yes in this culture it means yes.
When you nod no it means no
horizontally. With a kid you can often
be like do you want to go to the
playground or do you want to stay here?
Often times they will pick the one that
you associated with positive cues
because they are reading your cues to
figure out what the better choice is. So
oftent times with my kids I'll be like
do you want to wear this shirt or do you
want to wear that shirt? and I'll show
discuss and they're like well this one
obviously. So you can also associate
cues if you want to encourage someone to
make a choice if you know that both
choices are the same with kids it works
really well. Okay the last one is
contempt.
Contempt is scorn, disdain, pessimism.
It's a mark of superiority and that's
why it's so dangerous. When someone
feels contemptuous, they're often
feeling better than you or they know
better than you or they think better
than you. In marriages, it's
particularly damaging. Dr. John Gottman
found that when he observes silent
videos of a couple, he can predict with
93.6% accuracy if that couple will get
divorced within 30 years. If one member
of the couple shows contempt towards the
other, that basically if you're in a
relationship and someone is contemptuous
of the other person, they show a
one-sided mouth raise. Contempt is a
one-sided mouth raise or a smirk. Yeah.
Mhm. If they show that, it means they
feel better than that person. And if
that is not addressed, it fers and it
grows into disrespect and hatred. So
Gottman looks for contempt because he
knows if someone in the couple feels
contemptuous of the other person, they
feel better than that person. And that
is not an equal marriage. Is that the
only way that it comes out? The the
smirk is the most reliable way that
contempt can come out. Okay. Measurably,
right? Like what about the eye roll? You
know, an eye roll can be sort of silly,
but like I could like contempt no matter
the context is not good, right? Like if
someone is like, I don't think so. You
know, they feel better than that's never
a good thing. And I roll, you could be
like, ugh, you're being so silly, right?
So like contempt is the one expression
where one, you don't want to
accidentally show it in your profile
picture, so never show an an
asymmetrical smile. And two, if someone
is showing you contempt, you have some
rapport building to work on. Now, you
don't know what that contempt is. It
could be about you, could be about the
relationship. It even could be about
self-contempt, right? But you want to
immediately be like, "What is going on?
What are you feeling? What's going
through your mind? What questions do you
have for me to make sure you're
addressing whatever the reason for that
contempt is so it doesn't fester?" It
builds though, doesn't it, with
relationships. Is there do you think
there's any turning back when you've bu
because people will think about the
people they know in their lives and
there'll be some relationships where
they've kind of built up contempt over
time. So the minute you see this person
again, you're already kind of on edge.
You're probably already smirking, eye
rolling, whatever. The only way the only
way is shared experience. Talking more
usually doesn't get it. like you can
talk more, but if you have shared
experiences where you're building
oxytocin or you're building adrenaline,
you're doing something new together that
scares you both a little bit, it creates
all kinds of chemical connections and
bonds. I think that's why sometimes when
people go on like a couple's retreat or
a big couple's uh trip, it resets them.
It really resets them chemically. If you
are showing contempt, you might
disrespect that person. You have to go
into shared activities where you can
build respect back.
Can we change? Can we I guess this is a
question that a lot of people well like
it's quite foundational to learning from
you and listening to you is this like
deep belief that we can change who we
are because so many of us think that
we're kind of stuck in our personalities
and that they are rigid and that they
come from our trauma, our childhood, our
genetics. But as it relates to like my
personality, I guess what is my what is
a personality and can I change my
personality? Should I change my
personality? you can kind of change your
personality. That's probably not the
answer that you want, but they've
actually researched this and when you
look at personality, it's composed of
five main traits known as ocean.
Openness, conscientiousness,
extraversion, agreeableness, and
neuroticism. Every person on the planet
Earth has these five traits and they
fall on a spectrum high, medium or low.
These traits are somewhat heritable,
somewhat genetic. So there is a portion
of our gen genetics we cannot change.
For example, personality traits are
somewhere between 42 to 57% heritable.
Meaning some of it is just literally our
genes expressing themselves. But that
still gives us quite a bit of wiggle
room. What I like to focus on is if you
are low on the spectrum and let's say
neuroticism, which is how you worry, you
cannot become low. You cannot become
highly neurotic. It's too big of a it's
too big of a swing. But you could
probably dial up to medium if you wanted
to. or if you were high you could
probably dial down to medium. So you
have let's say 30 to 40% potential for
change. So if you want to change your
mindset, your goals, your personality,
you have about 30 to 40% I think freedom
to grow or change in a way that you want
to if you're purposeful. Can you give me
the definition of those five? Yes. Okay.
So openness. Openness is how curious you
are, how open to new experiences you
are, how creative you are. I think it's
why you're willing to have new people in
this setting is you like having new
questions. You're highly open people are
extremely curious. Okay. The opposite is
low open. Low open folks love habit,
tradition, routine. Jack, just said I
was a control freak though. Yeah.
Control is not about openness. Okay.
Right. Like you're willing to move
around the world. You're willing to meet
a lot of new people. Low open people
want to everything to be the same. They
don't want to travel. They don't want to
experience new things. And the reason
for this is actually they found that
highly open people have a certain form
of gene called DRD4, which means that
when they experience something new, they
get an extra load of dopamine. That is
why extremely high open people are
adrenaline junkies. They seek really new
experiences all the time because they
want that dopamine hit. They actually
get more dopamine when they try new
things. Low open people have less
dopamine for new experiences. So they're
like, "Why would I go travel when I have
my perfect setup right here?" They are.
I think what's really important about
personality is there is no bad, there's
no wrong. We want diversity of
personality because our high opens, they
explore. They're the ones trying all the
new things. Our low opens honor our
traditions and our rituals. So in terms
of finding a partner, very important. If
I were dating right now, I would
probably make the dator take a
personality test so we could see if
we're
matched. I would literally I put up this
test for free. So, I have a personality
test. It is up for free. I think every
single person should take it. Know your
own personality and also know your best
friend's personality, your partner
personality. What would you be looking
for? Okay. So, I know what ma what
matches really well together. A high
open and a low open are going to have
trouble. Okay. So someone who is
spontaneous, wants to try new things,
new experiences versus someone who just
wants to sit at home and do the same old
things, go to the same restaurant. Yes.
So let's talk about this very
practically. I know very quickly. So
yes, you can have hopefully have people
take the test and then look at the
results. Like you should actually
screenshot it and look. If you're not
sure, ask someone, "What do you usually
do for
lunch?" A high open will be like, "H, I
love trying new places. The new thing,
they always order the special every
time." A low open person wants to go to
the same restaurant with the same
waiter, order the same meal and they
would never try the special why risk
it. Very different approaches to the
same thing. So in a relationship every
single meal they're going to have a
problem. Like it's really easy if you
have the same level of approach to new
experiences. Entrepreneurs as a leader
leaders very good leaders are typically
higher in openness. So it tracks for you
that you're high and open because you're
willing to try new things. You're
willing to risk it for the biscuit.
You're willing to say, "Okay, I'm going
to risk this new idea to see if it's
going to work." I love risking it for
the biscuit. I know. And that's because
you're driven towards more high
dopamine. However, high open
entrepreneurs have shiny object syndrome
where they are constantly chasing new
ideas. No. And it doesn't always work.
No, not me. Okay. I'm joking. Of course,
you do it right. You don't. Yes.
Exactly. And that can be very
distracting. So, if you are working with
a high open leader, you are probably
extremely frustrated. They keep wanting
to try new projects. Do you think if I'm
building a company, I should look for
people that are equal in openness to me
or should I look for counterbalances?
That's it. Okay. But god, they're going
to frustrate me. They are going to
frustrate you, but they're going to keep
you in check. True. Right. Like you
should never have your C CFO as a high
open person. True. That's true. That's
so interesting. So true. So like the
best people like diversity of hiring is
so important in personality. The mistake
I see in corporate because I do
personality trainings for corporate is
managers hire their same personality and
they're all having the same problems.
They can never have followrough. And
that brings me to conscientiousness.
Yeah. Conscientiousness is where I think
opposites attract. This is where I think
that works. Conscientiousness is your
approach to detail. So it's high
conscious people love like I'm high
conscientious. I love alphabetizing. I
love color
coding. Office supplies make me so
happy. I love Post-it notes and files. I
like purses with 15 different
compartments.
Am I losing you? Yeah, you've lost me.
Okay, I've lost you. Yeah, cuz you're
medium open. I mean, sorry. You're
medium conscientious. I mean, all the
things you just described, I'm
absolutely none of those things, right?
Cuz you're medium. But I like detail in
work. Like, I like work to be great and
like us to care about details, but I'm
not like organized in the way that you
described. Right. And also, you're not
doing all the details. No. Right. You
have a team doing the really difficult
details of the research or the editing
because you can do it, but you're not
super super conscientious. I'm super
super high conscientious. So, I love the
details. I have a color-coded calendar
for my family, for example. I'm the only
one who looks at it. I wish I was more
like that. So, highly successful people
typically are more conscientious. And
this is what we have to remember is
they've studied this. Two low
conscientious people in a marriage have
more financial problems. Yes.
So unfortunately, this is one where high
conscientiousness can help you a lot in
marriage, with finances, in business.
But medium is okay. So if you're low,
you can work on dialing up your
conscientiousnesses with tools, with
training, with habits books. That's why
habits books are always on the
bestseller list. It's because all the
low conscientious and medium conscious
people of the world know, oo, if I want
to be successful, I just have to get
more habits. By the way, on the first
date with Ashley and Kendrick, Ashley
said that she had a spreadsheet for how
she spends her days. And he was like,
"Whoa, a spreadsheet." And she showed in
that answer that she was super high
conscientious. That is really good to
know in a new relationship is someone's
high or low conscientious. A high
conscientious person, they will never be
late, but they get very mad if you're
late. So, it's really good to know the
conscientiousness of your team and of
your partner so you can better predict
their behavior. Is there an element of
neurode divergence here as well? Because
I'm thinking if someone has ADHD or Yes,
I think that they're actively studying
this now. I think neurode divergence,
neurodiversity, there is personality
trends with that. I don't know exactly
what they are yet, but I know that
they're looking at how does the neurode
divergent community deal with
conscientiousness or openness. I know
that also, for example, neurode
divergent folks have a different
chemical response to even eye contact.
So like I talk about eye contact a lot,
but I have to be very aware for my
neurode diverent community. Eye contact
is harder for them and that is because
when they're connecting they want to be
processing and thinking. So it's much
harder, more distracting for them if
they're making eye contact. So there's a
lot of ways in which they are having a
different response to um an interaction
or a
connection. Okay, extraversion. So this
is the one that this is the cool kid. I
call it the cool kid of personality is
that everyone talks about extroverts and
introverts but actually ambberverts are
much more interesting to me and most
people are ambberverts. They fall
somewhere in between extrovert and
introvert. Introverts get energy from
being alone. Extroverts get energy from
being with others. Ambiverts can dial up
into extroverted energy, but they need a
lot of recharge time. Like I slept like
11 hours last night in preparation for
this interview, right? Like I knew that
it was going to be a lot of intense like
interaction time. So I wanted like a lot
of flat laying in bed time because I'm
ambervert leaning towards introvert. I
get energy from the right people, but I
can't do a lot of socializing. Are you
like this off camera? Like if I asked
your husband what you're like when if I
said to your husband, "Do an impression
of Vanessa." Show me what that
impression would look like. Vanessa at
home. It would be this but weirder. Like
I'm like I'm like a weird person at
home. It would be totally like this but
but bigger. Cuz at home I'm really
comfortable. Like I'm a silly mom. Like
with my girls like I'm dressing like a
dinosaur. I'm doing dance routines. Like
I'm very silly at home. He would
probably say bigger if you were to ask
him. Bigger. Yeah. Like more animated
than more animated. Oh my gosh. Do you
think I'm that animated? I thought you
were pretty animated. Oh my gosh. I'm
even more animated probably at home.
Really? Yeah, cuz I'm even more
comfortable. Okay. I'm putting on plays
with my girls. Like I'll I'll do the
whole Frozen soundtrack. I wouldn't do
that for you here, but at home I would.
How many episodes we got to do before
you do the Frozen soundtrack? A billion.
Okay. A million. No one will be with us
if we do a billion episodes. Okay. So
extraversion is important. Now this
happened on the date as well is he said,
"I'm a super extrovert." and she said,
"Oh, I don't go out that much." This can
also be an issue in a relationship. If
someone is super extroverted, they need
lots of people time versus someone who
is very introverted. They don't want the
people time. That is constant tension in
a relationship. You also have roles in a
company where I'll notice that people
will hire for a role where the role
requires extroverting. For example, if
you're in sales, you cannot be
introverted. It's very hard to be
introverted because you're having a cold
call. you'll have him to smoo and build
rapport. You have to enjoy those
networking events. So, it's important to
factor in what is the ideal personality
for this role. So, for example, I have
roles in my company where I actually
don't want an extrovert. Like, I don't
want to chitchat. I don't want you
socializing. Like, I want you to be
super high conscientious and really
direct. I I we've we've had this where
I've had a role where I had to let
someone go because she wanted to chat
too
much. And I was like, I can't I can't
chat. I don't I don't have capacity to
chat. I just like let's let's work right
side by side, but don't talk to me. Kind
of not really. Do you know what I mean?
You know what I mean? Where like I I
knew that our team wasn't extroverted
enough for her. And so you want to
really be careful about hiring a role
for your personality. So, extroverts.
Okay. Interesting. Oh, by the way, um
the best leaders are high extroverts.
They found this. High extroverts.
Yeah. What am I? Two stars out of three.
Middle. Middle. Makes sense. Like I
think that if you were out sch smoozing
more, it might help your business, but
might not. Might be distracting to you.
But that's what the research says. I
think if I was more extroverted, I'd be
a better better leader. I think my
business would be more successful cuz I
think it' be you'd be find it easier to
form new relationships and you know and
we could dial that up for you but you
couldn't completely change right like we
could dial up your extraversion but it
would take a lot of energy that's the
thing is we have we can change anything
we want but you probably can only change
it 30 to 40% it's going to take a lot of
energy and the question is like do you
want to do that okay agreeableness
agreeableness is the hardest one to get
agreeableness is your approach to
teamwork highly agreeable people want
everyone to like them and typically say
yes to everything. They're agreeable. So
the problem with agreeable people on a
team is you ask them for something and
they're like, "Oh, sure. Yes. Yeah, I
know these people." But they shouldn't
say yes. Yeah. And that is because they
so want to be liked and they they so
struggle with people pleasing and
boundaries. They don't have enough um
value in their own boundaries. They'll
say yes to anything, but then they can't
really do it. You have to be careful
with a highly agreeable person because
they often overcommit. Yeah. I tend to
find someone that's very agreeable. They
especially in the context of business
where you're trying to figure out what
the correct answer is. So you have a
problem and you're trying to pass out
what the correct answer is. You never
end up going to them because they will
say either what they think you want to
hear or they'll just take whatever your
idea was. You never get good feedback
from an agreeable person. Exactly. You
never get honesty. Yes. Because they
they can't. I have trouble with highly
agreeable people as friends. And that's
because they'll often I'll be like,
"Hey, do you want to go to this concert
in two weeks?" Oh yeah. And they cancel
me last minute always. Yeah. Cuz in
their minds like maybe but probably not.
But they're afraid to tell me. You don't
want your CFO to be agreeable. No. Now
let's talk about low agreeableness. Low
agreeableness. Those folks default to
no. They are highly skeptical. They
don't usually want they will not do
something for getting along. And because
they default to no, they typically can
be dream killers. Yeah. So if you're in
a pitch or a presentation, they're like,
"Nah, it never work. No, it'll never
work." Or you know you're with a highly
a low agreeable person if they Google
fact check everything you say. Mhm. Now
you have to know when to leverage them,
right? Like I know when to leverage my
low agreeable people. I know when I want
to go to them. Like my husband can be
very low agreeable. In fact, leaders are
often low agreeable because they can't
say yes to everything. They have to be
willing to say no. They have to willing
to have people be angry at them. So, I
know when I go to my husband for an
idea, I have to be ready. Ready for the
dream killing because he's going to be
hard on me and that's good. The last
one, my favorite neuroticism.
Neuroticism is how you approach worry.
So, you're medium. A high neurotic is a
worrier. This is me. High neurotics
believe that worrying is an investment
in failure prevention. Yeah. We worry to
protect ourselves. And here's what's
really important to know. Low neurotics
are very emotionally stable. They
usually don't worry. They say things
like, "Don't worry about it." or "It'll
all work
out." They do that because they actually
have a different chemical response to
negative events. What they found is that
high neurotics, like me, we carry the
short form of the serotonin transporter
gene. Serotonin makes us feel calm. It
makes us feel like everything's going to
be okay. High neurotics, we produce less
serotonin more slowly. So if something
bad happens to me, let's say I get a bad
email, my adrenaline shoots up, my
cortisol shoots up, I begin to worry, my
body is slow to respond with the
serotonin that will say, "It's okay.
It'll be okay." So I literally have a
negative response for longer. That is
why we worry. High neurotics chemically
feel things worse than lonerics. So in a
relationship, lonerics are like, "Why
are you worrying about this? You can't
do anything about it anyway." And the
hierotic is like because if it happens
it will feel very bad and my serotonin
hasn't kicked in yet. So my husband is
low neurotic. I'm high neurotic. This is
a great match. Is there a gender
stereotype here? Yes. So women are
typically higher in eroticism and higher
in agreeableness. So they've actually
studied the difference between genders.
Women are higher in neuroticism and
agreeableness than men. Men are also
typically higher in extraversion. So
women are typically higher in worrying.
Yes. And yes, people and people
pleasing. Yes. And men are typically
lower in worrying and less likely to
care about pe people pleasing and more
extroverted by by nature. Typically, we
take our time when it comes to hiring at
Flight Story because I fundamentally
believe the success of a business is
directly linked to how good you are at
hiring. And better hiring starts with
smarter insights. LinkedIn, who's a
sponsor of this podcast, has some of the
strongest hiring data available to help
you identify the best candidates for
your business. Their platform will even
pair you with those who match what
you're looking for, which might lie
outside of the job description and more
in their unique skills and interests.
Because these days, hiring isn't just
about finding the most qualified person,
but also finding the one whose
experience, abilities, and interests
align with your company's mission. And
it goes beyond candidates who are
applying for jobs, too. In any given
week, 171 million members who aren't
actively seeking jobs are open to new
opportunities. Find your next great hire
on LinkedIn and start today by posting
your job for free just by visiting
linkedin.com/dac. So if I'm sat
listening to this conversation right now
and I'm sat next to somebody and I'm
like I think they might be a narcissist.
Oh no. And I I'll turn to them now. So
if you're sat next to someone you
think's a narcissist, just turn to them
and say, "Hey, we should do this
personality test on Vanessa's website.
What what score on the personality test
would I be looking for to spot a
narcissist? Oh goodness. So narcissists
tend to be uh higher in extroversion.
They typically love to be around people
because it feeds their narcissism.
Again, that does not mean that all
extroverts are
narcissists. I don't know about
conscientiousness. I don't know if that
correlates. Typically, narcissists are
lower in agreeableness because they
believe in themselves so much that they
don't they're like, I don't need people
to agree with me. I'm totally great by
myself. Typically, they are lower in
neuroticism because they don't worry.
They're like, "Everyone likes me. I'm so
great. Why should I be worried?" And I
don't know about openness. So, luckily,
whatever their answer is, you don't have
to be too worried, but you do want to
have a conversation that goes like
this. I see that you're really low in
neuroticism, which means you don't worry
about things. When has that served you
and when has that not served you? The
most important thing about personality
is first analyzing yourself. knowing
where you fall. Second is analyzing
someone else. How do they fit with you?
And the last step is do you optimize or
compromise. A narcissist will not
compromise with you. So you'll find out
if they're a narcissist. If as you talk
about the compromises, they won't.
When they talk about how they're
neurotic, they never had a problem with
it. Oh, their agreeableness, it's always
been great. Oh, their extraversion,
they're perfect. Their
conscientiousness, they do everything
right. They've never made a mistake.
Their openness, their way is the better
way. A narcissist typically believes
their personality traits are perfect
typically. So, it's actually not their
score, it's how they relate to the
score. Interesting. That should be a red
flag. And you said at the start of the
conversation, certain personality traits
correlate with longevity. Yes, they've
studied this. So, you want to guess
which personality traits last the live
the longest? Well, I'd say if you're
high conscientious, then you're going to
live pretty long because you're not
going to take many risks. You're not
going to [__] up. But there's a close
second. Health. Um, so high conscious
people are very good at habits,
exercising, brushing teeth, taking their
medication, and there's one more that
correlates to longevity. I'm going to
say high extroverts because you make
more friends. That's it. You have a
partner. That's it. So, if you are a
high extrovert, you have a support
system. You invest in your support
system and you're getting a constant
dose of oxytocin and serotonin, which
makes you feel so good, which makes you
feel belonging, which means you seek out
people when you needed help. So, who
want advice? Extroverts live longer.
Yeah. Extroverts and high conscious
people live longer. You want to know who
lives the shortest? Can you guess? You
tell me. The people who live the
shortest, who have the lowest lifespan
are high neurotics. We worry ourselves
to death. We have more chronic stress,
more anxiety, and more depression. So,
neurotics have a an issue. And this is
me. We have a problem with our
serotonin, right? Serotonin is very
complicated. There's doing a lot of
research on this. If I don't produce as
much serotonin and I produce it more
slowly, I am having far more negative
experiences than the same person in the
room. Like if I'm in a car and we almost
get in a car accident and I'm the high
neurotic that affects me all day long.
I'm like jittery and jumpy all day and
people earlier like what are you talking
about? We didn't even get in an
accident. It's cuz their serotonin
kicked in right away began producing.
They're like, "Oh, we're good." Whereas
mine is like a slow faltering car. It's
like I know people like that. I feel
sorry for them. Exactly. And they don't
live as long. So I am working very very
hard in my life to one dial up my
extraversion to have a really strong
support system because I know that
supports me both mentally and longevity
wise. But I'm also working on how to
curb my neuroticism to dial down my
worry to know that it's not an
investment in worry prevention. Worrying
more does not prevent bad things from
happening but having resilience does.
What about optimism and pessimism? You
know, optimism is not a part of the
personality spectrum. However, high
neurotics tend to be more pessimistic.
Okay? Right? So, the more you worry, the
more you think bad things will happen.
Did you read hear about that study a
study in 2015 um where they looked at
the blood test results of extroverts
found that they had stronger immune
responses than introverts? It doesn't
make doesn't that make so much sense?
So, extroverts, there's a lot of things
happening for extroverts. one is they're
exposing themselves to lots of different
immune systems. So, they're getting more
antibodies by exposing themselves to
lots of different immune systems. But
two, when they're with people, they're
happier. If you're an introvert and
you're with someone and you're unhappy
and stressed, your cortisol is up, your
adrenaline is up, you're not having as
good of a time. Whereas, an extrovert is
getting all this energy, getting all
this dopamine, which is fueling them,
which is making them feel better, which
makes them stronger. I was reading about
something a couple years ago as well
that showed um that if you have stronger
social connections, it's like an
insulator of stress. Yes. So then if
you're lonely and you experience stress,
you physiologically feel it worse. It's
stress insurance. Yeah. Like investing
in your friendships, the reason why I
talk about it so much, it is stress
insurance. And by the way, lifelong
singles, they can predict lifelong
singles. So lifelong singles typically
low in openness, which means they don't
want to try new things. They don't want
to go to new places. They don't want to
go to new restaurants. They won't go out
and meet new people because they're low
in openness. Low in extraversion, so
they don't get energy from being around
people. And they're low in
conscientiousness. They can't even plan
it. That is a trifecta of you're going
to have a hard time meeting your
friends, meeting your people because you
don't get energy from people. You're not
open to meeting new people. And you
cannot have follow-through with trying
to get the habit to get those new
people. This episode is really important
for those people because it means a
you're not alone. There's other people
who have this. Two, it could be your
genetics at work, right? I think that
sometimes people get like down on
themselves for it. I'm like, look, like
it could be how you're wired. You're not
set up right to be getting energy from
people. Okay, we have to work on that.
That means we have to find the right
people in the right situation. So if I
have that person, I have a lot of
lifelong singles who are my students. I
say, "Okay, we can do this. We can do
this." Okay, you don't get energy from
people. You're a low extrovert. Where do
you get energy? Knitting, okay, books,
great. Hiking, great. Extreme sports,
great. That's where I want you to hang
out. I want you to get energy from the
activity, not the people. So that way,
you're getting all this good stuff from
the activity. Meeting people becomes a
side effect. And it's easier to be
extroverted, to fight with that
extroversion because you're like, "Oh,
they're doing the same activity." And
you don't even have to be high open
because if you love that extreme sport,
go to the same place every week at the
same time, but do it all over the city.
Mhm. That way, the first time is going
to be hard, but it's a ritual. It's a
habit. And then whoever is coming in
new, that's your that's your app. That's
your people. So, there's ways to do
this. You just have to invest a little
bit in it. I I I truly believe that
lifelong singles can find their person.
They just have to be looking in the
right ways. Is it important for me to
know someone else's personality type
when I meet them? When you first meet
them, you don't have to know their
personality right away. However, they
found that you can tell many of the
personality traits from a
handshake. From a handshake. So, like if
we if we handshake I'm I'm like
overthinking it now. Like he like didn't
shake my hand. I was like overthinking
it cuz I was going to do What are you
going to do? Don't do anything crazy.
Okay. Okay. Like pretend that we just
met. Okay. Just pretend. Pretend. Oh,
it's so good to meet you. Okay, so
extroverts shake firmer. I usually do
this as well. So, sometimes I do this.
Very good. And that's typically a mark
of extraversion. So, like that speaks to
like a little bit higher on the scale.
We tell from handshake of the firmness,
of the length, of the amount of pumps
that happen. All of those things are
informing that sort of like uh our
brains like like figuring out someone's
personality. So, you can actually pay
attention to what your instinct is. It's
probably right. They've even found um
the weirdest, this is like the weirdest.
They did a study where they observed
people shaking hands and they filmed
them and found that in that minute after
shaking hands, almost everyone touched
their nose or their face and they found
that their nasal dilation increased.
Meaning when we shake someone's hand,
we're kind of smelling their
hand like I smell you. It's so weird.
It's so weird. But that's what we're
doing. It's cuz we're stressing out
something about their personality.
There's a lot I think under the surface
that we don't even realize is happening.
Like I swear that when I shake a nervous
person's hand and I smell my hand, I get
a little bit nervous. Really? Yes. Like
I don't like to be around nervous people
because they like trigger my own
nervousness. Yeah. Weirdest weirdest
thing ever. That's a really interesting
thing. Like you get a vibe off people
when you meet them. The vibe is real.
Yeah. It's so real, isn't it? That's
that first impression. That vibe is so
real. Yes. That's why I encourage people
to not go to places where they're
uncomfortable because people will pick
up on that vibe. Like go places where
you thrive. like go to the go to the
activities, do the things that you
actually like because that's going to
come across. It's going to affect your
vibe. This is so true. I I did something
the other night actually with the team.
Do you remember that thing we did the
other night? I probably shouldn't say
it, but I went to a place which I'm like
really uncomfortable in. Oh, why'd you
do that? Because I They told me I had to
go. Yeah. But you didn't like it. I
hated every minute of it. Right. I Your
vibe was for sure off. And I looked at
myself in the photos after. I was like,
"Fucking hell, you're having a terrible
time. Like you really don't want to be.
You cannot hide it. It's like my little
thing was like I was like you like
terrified. You were probably like really
afraid. So, I think that like energy
curation is important here. Yeah, it's
so important. You can't fake it very
easily, can you? When you and I don't
think we should try to fake it, right?
Like I would much rather you set
yourself up for success and say no to
the things that don't work for you. And
there's one way that I kind of
understand what I think about a person
is is my vibe because it's so
interesting doing this podcast. I've met
hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and
hundreds of people and within the first
five seconds I can feel them. Yes. And I
don't know how to explain it other than
it's almost because I sit in my little
room doing my research and then I'll
come out, I walk around the corner and
within like 3 to 5 seconds I know
whether we're good to go and we're ready
and we're calm and we're or if there's
something off. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. That is
real. There's something off. That is
real. So when you feel that anywhere on
a date, with someone you're hiring, on a
team, you should trust that feeling
because it is something that we cannot
we have not explained with science yet.
It's pherommones. It's the shape of your
face. It's the feeling of your hand and
mine. It's there is something happening
chemically, physically, and you should
trust it. Like, have you ever been led
astray from that? We have a closing
tradition, as you know, on this podcast
where the last guest leaves a question
for the next, not knowing who they're
leaving it for. And the question that's
been left for you
is, what are you doing on a daily basis
to improve the life of someone else? And
how can you serve others better?
This is weird. Of course, of course it
is.
Um, I knew I wanted to write books. I
actually think of myself as a writer.
Like I want to be I wanted to be a
writer. I've always wanted to be a
writer. When I started to be a writer in
2007, social media did not exist. Your
job as a writer back then was to write
books. And maybe if you were lucky, you
had a three-month book tour. To be
totally honest with you, I did not know
I was signing up for
this. I did. I did not. If you had told
me that being a writer would
mean sharing videos of my home and my
personal
life every day, I probably wouldn't have
done it. I don't love that part of my
job to be honest with you. And so, um, I
know though that I have to share on
video every day, every day, right, to be
able to get people to read my books.
Which part of it don't you like? All of
it. I mean, all of it. Which part do you
hate the most? Um, trying to synthesize
something very complicated into 60
seconds. I don't like it. I think
communication is very complex, but I
know it's essential to boil down a tip
into a hook and then a framework and I
don't love that. And so um when my
career started to change like I was
writing books and then it was like oh
it's you know 20% of your job is
marketing now 30% of your job is
marketing now 50% of your job is
marketing now writing books is six
months of writing and the rest of your
life is marketing.
I did not sign up for that. So um I get
up every day and I post videos on my
stories and on my social media and I do
that to serve. I do not do that because
I like it and if I could skip it I would
but I can't. It's how I'm able to write
books and so that is how I serve.
Vanessa, you are um you are an extremely
rare force in this art form. Thank you.
You really are. It's I I loved it's so
funny on the podcast when I love having
I love the conversation I have with
somebody and I walk away with it feeling
like I need to watch it back again and
take notes because there's so many new
concepts that that feel so valuable to
me. But then to see the way that the
world reacted to you, oh my gosh, it was
incredible. It was like unbelievable. It
was insane. I feel like I met like 8
million new best friends. That's kind of
what it felt like. I mean, as of now, I
think the the video is like 8 million. I
don't even That doesn't even count
audio. It's the most downloaded audio
episode we've ever had of all time. So,
it means that's probably another six or
six or seven million people or
something. And it it really did feel
like I found my people. Like I felt like
literally it was like finding 8 million
new friends where I fel I met 8 million
recovering awkward trying to connect
trying to figure it out people who are
like learners and we were just flooded
with love and it re-energized everything
that I do cuz I was like I have got to
help everyone like I have got to be more
helpful and so like it was just such a
gift like thank you for giving me the
space and asking the questions because I
just have met the most amazing
You deserve it. Oh, it's a special gift.
Thanks. It's blown my mind how desperate
and hungry people are for this
information. Yes. Vanessa, thank you so
much for being here again. I really
appreciate you and thank you for the you
had a profound impact on our show. You
brought millions of new people to our
show that had never listened before. So,
we owe you tremendously and thank you
for what you're doing. You're a very
unique person. You're you have all the
right balance of like wisdom,
articulation. You're challenging but in
the in the best possible way. So, and
you're weird and you know you are and
you you you own it, which makes it um
admirable, endearing, and uh a force for
for change cuz so many other people out
there are struggling to step into their
own sort of weird authenticelves.
Vanessa, thank you so much for being so
generous with your time. It's wonderful
to see you again. Thank you. Thank you
for the from the gazillions of people
that stopped me in the streets and in
the gyms and everywhere I went and sent
me messages and just like overwhelmed me
with this like wave of appreciation
because of that episode and shared it
with their friends like crazy. Thank you
on behalf of all of them too. Please
keep doing what you're doing. Okay.
Yeah, I will. Thank you. The hardest
conversations are often the ones we
avoid. But what if you had the right
question to start them with? Every
single guest on the diary of a co has
left behind a question in this diary.
And it's a question designed to
challenge, to connect, and to go deeper
with the next guest. And these are all
the questions that I have here in my
hand. On one side, you've got the
question that was asked, the name of the
person who wrote it. And on the other
side, if you scan that, you can watch
the person who came after who answered
it. 51 questions split across three
different levels. The warm-up level, the
open up level, and the deep level. So,
you decide how deep the conversation
goes. And people play these conversation
cards in boardrooms at work, in
bedrooms, alone at night, and on first
dates, and everywhere in between. I'll
put a link to the conversation cards in
the description below, and you can get
yours at the diary.com.
[Music]
Wow. Wow.